That's what he wants you to think.

The Vale isn't enough for him, I'm sure he has some kind of Ace up his sleeveIf Jon Snow dies, Sansa inherits the North.  Littlefinger isn't done just yet, although I imagine the realisation that Jon already died once and still came back will be playing on his mind.

Only fools rush in to decisions.  Littlefinger needs to rethink his strategy.  He never took the threat from the North seriously, but know he's there I think he can accept that all this chaos doesn't destroy his ambitious, but does change his gameplan.You are talking about little finger and sansa is sansa i am sure he will get in her head sooner or later.
remember the famous little finger quote " I'm not going to fight them: I'm going to fuck them." he is the best player of the game . all he needs is the north once he has the north,the vale, and riverlands (harrenhal) he will be unstoppable
 His position in the Vale isn't as precarious in the show. Robin seems to actually like Littlefinger, so Littlefinger still holds some sway and has time to bring over some other important lords in the Vale. And not matter what, he can probably leverage some power out of helping take Winterfell. 

His role in the North does seem precarious, because they're up against a foe that's immune to Littlefinger's best attributes. You can't exactly talk or bribe your way out of a zombie invasion. Directing his attention to Danaerys might also be an option. 

I believe he also holds some debt and likely has enough money to hire mercenaries or align himself with Iron Bank of he really has no other outs.

I think it's one of the unfortunate differences between book and show. 

In the show, yeah you're completely right, he's backed himself into a corner and his days' are numbered as such. What was he thinking frankly? He's been making stupid decisions for two seasons all for, what, a chance to romance Sansa in lieu of Catelyn? Gy turned into an absolute moron and I don't think he has any more story to tell. 

The books however, Baelish is clearly up to something and there is the "Harrenhal Theory" which, maybe not 100% accurate but definitely shines a light on their being depths to Baelish's schemes that are yet to come into fruition. There's another act in his story there. 

So ultimately, unfortunately, this is just another victim of the translation from paper to screen. I am 100% confident there is more to Littlefinger's story, but I unfortunately think we won't be seeing any of it on the show. Sansa, is still under the impression that they need Littlefinger for the Vale army, so she isn't going to act on him yet. I still think there will be a proper Jon/Sansa feud sometime this season, that Littlefinger will fuel. So Littlefinger isn't a dead man walking yet

I wonder though if we'll see Sansa getting closer to Sweetrobin and manipulating him to get rid of Petyr.The wall is always the last to hear. The Starks are not fond of the Targaryens. And for good reason. 

They've definitely heard the rumours, but Dragons aren't some mystical godlike beings that could wipe out the others with ease. If all the magic of the Children of the Forest and the first men can't stop the Others then what chance have a handful of glorified lizards got? >  I looked up the meaning of the name Wlla and it said, (Fierce Protector)

Well TIL. I think that little factoid is very GRRMesque and it's a good catch mate, yeah, I'm completely sold on this being a little nugget that GRRM planted. Wylla is the name of the Wetnurse at Starfall (The seat of House Dayne). She nursed both Jon Snow, and Ned Dayne (Beric Dondarrion's squire). She accompanied Eddard Stark back to Winterfell after the Tower of Joy before returning to Starfall.There's also another Wylla in the books who is Lord Manderly's granddaughter and fiercely loyal to the Starks.This. Ned told everyone she was the mother of Jon to protect him from Robert.All kings are bad. It's part of what the story is about.

And a lot of Stannis's more humanizing moments were influenced by Ser Davos. Without the Onion Knight besides him, he would only have Melisandre to advice him and I'm not sure how great that would have turned out.

I'm not saying Stannis would be a horrible king. He tries to be Just and Brave and has raised Ser Davos based on merit. But he also has severe managerial flaws. He has trouble showing compassion and seeing other people's point of view. He's a bad negotiator and expects other people to be just as harsh on themselves as he is on himself. He has real issues understanding incentives.

Part of being the king (or any ruler) is to ensure different points of view can cooperate for the greater good and I'm not sure Stannis would be very good at that. If his Small Council is chosen wisely, this could be mitigated, but Stannis also isn't the kind of person that would listen to their counsel if something get stuck in his mind.Depends on which Stannis. Stannis pre-Blackwater would only be a bit better than Renly. Stannis post-Blackwater would be a decent king.

The difference between them is that Stannis beforehand was focused on what he should have by law and that people should obey *because* it's law. Which, admittedly, sounds like it's a good opinion but he's not focusing as much on what the heck he'd actually do as king or fixing the kingdom's problems. Or, as he puts it post-Blackwater, he becomes king because he first saves the realm and demonstrates that he is the right man for the job.

>The Targaryens came to Westeros and conquered the kingdoms and turned it into one big realm. Ok. But after three hundred plus years of incest to keep bloodlines pure, and horrible kings like Maegor the Cruel, Baelor the Befuddled, Aegon the Unworthy, and of course the Mad King, the people of Westeros finally had enough. And when the dragon prince kidnapped Lyanna and father and son Stark were murdered before the Iron Throne, that was the tipping point.

Far more complicate than that. You can easily point to Targaryen kings far better than anyone vying for the throne now. It wasn't one long line of 'we're putting up with the Targaryens'.

>To make a long point short, the people rebelled, they made Robert their new king, he dies, his "children" are really Jaime's bastards, so the throne belongs to Stannis. In my mind Dany has no claim. Dragons yes, but no claim to the throne. She may be chosen to fight the others yes, but by the rights of Westeros the throne isn't hers.

That's entirely dependent on your view of both who should have won and whether or not the best way to resolve the current civil war is to bring Daenarys back. She has far more legal claim than Aegon I did when he came over, and his conquest brought major benefits to Westeros.

But I doubt it really matters. In the end I expect that throne to be blown to pieces and ultimately the unified kingdom with it.Stannis without the influence of Melisandre and her religion, would have on paper been a good king. He is harsh but fair, and he seems to be meritocratic. Though even without Melisandre, we have no way of being sure that he will be an efficient king, he is not popular with the other nobles, and he won't negotiate if he feels he's right. IMO he would have tried to bring justice and reforms, but nobles would have rebelled against him.

I agree though the show did a really bad job with him, and made him out to be a villain, when he wasn't>Dany may be the mother of dragons and the chosen one the prophecy speak of send to mankind to fight the others, but Stannis is the rightful king of Westeros

I don't know how being mother of dragons and the chosen one to fight the others has anything to do with being rightful heir. Robert took the throne by right of conquest and "Targs fucking shits" were deposed from throne, losing all the previous rights on it making Dany, who is probably mad as well, a foreign invader. Not only is he a good king, he is an awesome father. Stannis would be a good king for war time but would suck during peace time.The only king I can think of that's better is Jaehaerys ILol - You think you'll get downvoted on r/asoiaf for praising Stannis "The Mannis" The-One-True King Baratheon here? The majority of this sub fucking love Stannis. 

If you want to genuinely garner downvotes buddy, ya need to come to the dark side where a literal-dozen or so of us are all fervent believers that Stannis is a giant fucking hypocrite and ultimately a piss poor ruler. *That's* how you get downvoted friend. I refuse to believe the blatant fanfiction D&D have pandered to the masses. Stannis will never burn his one and only heir.I am not sure if Stannis would be the best king but I am 100% sure that Stannis-Davos would be the best King-Hand duo

Daeron II? Egg? Aegon I? Not now, this sub is too pro-Dany in the show season to appreciate Stannis. I am pretty sure this post will get downvoted. How is Stannis a hypocrite and a piss poor ruler? I think that fits a description of Dany far more than StannisJaehaerys beats each and every one of themIt's getting downvoted pretty hard right now :/> I think that fits a description of Dany far more than Stannis

The two aren't mutually exclusive mate. 

You'll have to do some digging I'm afraid as a) I can't do a full blown write up that will give this viewpoint the justice it genuinely deserves and b) it's been talked about and debated a lot before (only problem is the topic gets downvoted into oblivion so the threads are really hard to find here). 

Please excuse the format but I'm going to give you some very high-level examples, again, I apologise in advance as I won't do this *theory* the justice is deserves..... 

* If Stannis is an atheist why is he allowing Melisandre to sacrifice innocent lives to a God he doesn't believe in? 
* If Stannis is all about honour and virtue and being a "Just Man", how does he justify repeatedly cheating on his wife?
* Stannis murdered his brother with *"Black Magic"* in cold blood
* Stannis marched to the wall in order to become King, by saving the common folk. His priorities were in that order and that order alone. He didn't go North to save his countrymen, he didn't go North because it was "the right thing to do"..... he went North as a means to an end in order to finally claim his crown. His motivations are completely grey here, he is not a savior of the people and a good king, he's an opportunist


The accusation of hypocrisy is squarely levelled at Stannis repeatedly claiming he is a "just man". "Just men" don't burn innocents and repeatedly cheat on their wives. 

Stannis is (supposedly) an excellent Military Commander and is repeatedly described as someone who would "break before they bend"..... does that honestly sound like the makings or a sound ruler? Someone with iron-fist temperament and a tendency for strategic victories? He would make an excellent LC of the Kingsguard for sure(**Edit: he'd probably make a top-tier Hand as well**), but a *ruler*....? King's should be more than generals. 

Maybe, but those 3 were all better kings than Stannis would ever have been, that's what I was getting at. Wrong time to post this, mate>If Stannis is an atheist why is he allowing Melisandre to sacrifice innocent lives to a God he doesn't believe in? 

All people Melly sacrificed were traitors whos sentence was death anyway


>Stannis murdered his brother with "Black Magic" in cold blood

Renly was traitor and an usurper, he refused more than fair offer presented to him by Stannis and was executed for his treachery


>Stannis marched to the wall in order to become King, by saving the common folk...

"Lord Seaworth is a man of humble birth, but he reminded me of my duty, when all I could think of was my rights. I had the cart before the horse, Davos said. I was trying to win the throne to save the kingdom, when I should have been trying to save the kingdom to win the throne"
Stannis is the only person beside Brotherhood without banners and High Sparrow who thinks about common folk


>and is repeatedly described as someone who would "break before they bend"..... 

Doyle haven't seen Stannis for more then ten years, he's flexible enough else he wouldn't let Melly release Mance, nor he would be now in crofster's village with more than half of his soldiers being NorthenersHow many innocent people did he allow to burn? Name some.
I fear you may be missing the exemplifications of hypocrisy in these scenarios, I am not querying whether they are "right" or "wrong" decisions, I am highlighting hypocrisy. 

> All people Melly sacrificed were traitors whose sentence was death anyway

It's the act of sacrificing to a god he doesn't himself believe in I take issue with. He's using the Red religion to his own advantages, as a means to an end, as a tool. He isn't himself a believer and so (just like me sitting in Church on a Sunday morning) it's very hypocritical. Doubley-so when he then tells his subjects that they should all convert. 

> Renly was traitor and an usurper, he refused more than fair offer presented to him by Stannis and was executed for his treachery

He wasn't executed. Executions require a flavour of trail prior (yes; I know this is Game of Thrones and set in an equivelant to medieval times). Nevertheless this was murder, not an execution. It was also Kinslaying, which in-universe is one of the most heinous crimes one can commit. It isn't justice against a traitor, it's murder for a quick fix. 

> I was trying to win the throne to save the kingdom, when I should have been trying to save the kingdom to win the throne"

You've quoted it yourself. His motivation is, ultimately; *".....to win the throne"*. 

> he's flexible enough else he wouldn't let Melly release Mance, nor he would be now in crofster's village with more than half of his soldiers being Northeners

If I implied he wasn't dynamic and/or flexible than my apologies as that wasn't the intention. I always read "break before they bend" as a comment on his mindset, sense of justice, his essence of being. Not as someone being resolute 100% of the time and being anti-adaptation. I.e. Jon has (arguably) grown into being a good leader and has changed as a consequence. Where as Dance-Stannis is pretty much the exact same as Clash-Stannis, it's still very much a case of "his way or the kingsroad". 

Yes he's learnt about situational events and adapted because of them. I.e. learning about the threat of the army of the undead. But how has any of this changed Stannis? Where is his character growth? Or, is he still just same-old-Stannis, with all the flaws and feelings-of-entitlement that we first saw back Clash? Even after learning about the White Walkers, it's always been a case of "I'll fix this as King".... never a case of "Shit, maybe there a bigger fish I should be frying". 


Well I'm not at home, with no books to hand, and as I said at the top of the post there is no way I can do this theory the justice it deserves. 

So.... no........ :)Guncer Sunglassits part of his storyline in book 1 that some of his bannermen who wont convert get burned i believe. shireen is also top of the list.You can see it [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/2k6xjr/spoilers_adwdevery_single_person_stannis_burned/)Pretty sure Selyse burned him when Stannis was at Blackwater. Stannis didn't burn him after he refused to support his claim, he just threw him into a cell.He knew that Selyse is a fanatic and Rhllor worshippers like burning people. Stannis pretty much left Sunglass to die when he left him on Dragonstone.Weren't the "Queens Men" routinely burning people in ADwD too? No, they wanted to, but Stannis forbade it. However it is unknown that if they actually burned someone behind Stannis' back. Not sure, but I wouldn't be surprised. Asha thinks that they'd gladly burn her.WOIAF states that Maester Nichol hypothesised about a time when the phases of the moon were the same as our own and the seasons were normal, but no-one could explain the winters with a non-magical explanation. 

http://imgur.com/a/DPNwxJaimie's relationship with Tyrion is probably the "purest" relationship he has. Jaimie never needed anything from Tyrion and never had to give anything he didn't care to give anyway. It's probably the healthiest familial relationship he has and brotherly love can be a powerful motivator. 

I'm also not sure if Jaimie knew where Tyrion would go. I can imagine Varys playing that very close to the chest.> I'm pretty sure we'll see this being used in the books

I think that's the key here. Personally, I'm really not so sure about that anymore. 

Like I used to be super pissed that they cut out Lady Stoneheart... until I realized that particular storyline probably just isn't going anywhere in the books. Or take Quentyn... I've never heard anyone complain that they cut him out of the show, have you? What if all the little details and subplots GRRM has sprinkled throughout the books are just a bunch of Quentyns? Likely that none of Magical Horns of Instant Plot-Twisting will be in the show.Varys totally mentioned that there were krakens spotted in the narrow sea at a small council meeting at some point. Can't remember when. Possibly around the same time he mentioned a pack of wolves being led by a direwolf. And it's taken this long for the latter so who knows.A lot of those things only seem important in the books because we pull out specific passages and dwell on them here and in other forums. If you just read the books straight through without a wiki or anyone else to talk to, you won't notice most of this stuff.

Some of it they're going to cut from the show, but Sam has the old broken horn and will probably read something about it in his books. 

We might hear more about the prophecies but it's hard to bring it up in the show without completely telegraphing what's going to happen. In the books there are multiple people interpreting the same prophecies so we're left to wonder what they mean. The show doesn't have time to make it too complicated.> They can't set the whole thing up this late in the game can they?  
  
They can, and that's the best time to do so - right before it's actually relevant. The groundwork, between Mel and Kinvarra, is there.  
  
> they also didn't even foreshadow or mention Krakens, Dragon binding horns, Kraken summoning horns, horns of joramun  
  
Probably won't appear.  
  
> I guess there's a bit more time for that in the show.  
  
Yes - again, the show introduces things when they become relevant. Now that the cast has been pruned, Bran has been trained, and Jon is in a position of power, is the time.I think you should know where the story goes before you criticise for not setting it up properlyI think the Azor Ahai thing is a bit of a red herring, despite it being a popular obsession amongst fans. 

My guess is that AA will only after the book story inasmuch as it motivates the characters such as Melisandre, Bloodraven and Rhaegar to try to fulfill it. And the show downplays the pre-story history since it is difficult to get across on a TV show.I think the Dragon horn in the books is a sham anywayI stopped comparing the books and show a few seasons ago.  The people who haven't read the books are missing out on a lot, but they don't know what they're missing and probably don't care, because the show is really fucking good.Yeah agree. If Euron summoned a storm or kraken as has been theorised, there'd be absolutely no precedent to it - a lot of casual show viewers would be entirely thrown off, especially in a show toted as human in a vaguely fantastical world. It'd be entirely fantastical in a vaguely human world.

What also worries me is book spoilers. If the show never goes down the route of magic horns, krakens etc - can we expect the same plot points in the books?I totally agree. I feel we've been robbed of some very critical plot points, and for what? Angry dornish women & a sassy Mormont girl. At this point I can't see how we'll get a satisfactory ending that honours GRRM's work. I'm glad the show has found a way to address modern sociopolitical issues, but if it's at the expense of the plot and integrity of the story, what's the point. Nah. People thought Euron was lying about having been to Valyria but then he shows up in Valyrian steel armor. 

Moquorro would've told Victarion if it was a sham.That's TWOW spoilers mateI'd love that tbh. People whining about a 2/3 minute long cameo was immensely entertaining for me. If he appears in more scenes I'd honestly die of laughter from all the "but IMMERSION" comments.Is he even slated to come for another episode? I don't think so. No Ed Sheeren is not an actor.Despite what the other posters are saying, I think Sansa's put down to Littlefinger was the best LOL moment for me. Was the Sam soup-poop montage supposed to be funny? I thought it was supposed to burn into your mind just how much soup he'd been serving & how much poop he'd been taking care of.

I thought the Sandor & Thoros top knot part was pretty funny, it added some light heartedness to them rolling together now. It was a good moment

Tyrion used to be really funny but when they started going off book he got a lot more straight forward, less clever & less funny. Ofcourse he's like the biggest example of a shift in dialogue.

Other than that there's still some nice funny scenes. Euron was funny when he met Cersei

I found hodor's death pretty amusing.I thought this for the entirety of the last season already, especially the Tyrion parts. They turned his character into a parody of himself.The show in general has been hurting ever since they started running out of source material. Downvote away, but it's true. Believe it or not, D&D had a hard time hiring writers that could hold a candle to GRRM, mild shock.Nah some of the Hound's lines are hilarious.Euron mocking Jamie was surprisingly witty to me.  Gotta...er...hand it to him.  Who are the comic relief characters in previous seasons?

* Cynical Bronn
* Sassy Tyrion
* Droll Varys
* Dolores Edd
* Unselfconscious Hodor

Are there others?Personally, I thought the Hound's back and forth with Thoros was pretty funny. I also don't know that the montage was supposed to be funny. I think it was shown to show how shitty (no pun intended) Sam's life is at the Citadel and that time has passed so that he doesn't just waltz in, say "hi" to Jorah, and pocket a few books.Tyrion's already a parody of himself by ADWD. Where do whores go got old after the third time I read it."You should try killing your brother"

"I've got a thousand ships and two good hands"

Yep, i liked it. It definitely got a chuckle out of me. >Tyrion's already a parody of himself by ADWD. Where do whores go got old after the third time I read it.

Not really. A parody of Tyrion would be a guy that "drinks and know things".

Where do whores go is no different than kill the boy and she's fucking Lancel and Osmund Kettleback and Moonboy for all I know.

It's closer to a writing exagerration than turning a character into a parody I agree. Tyrion was better previous seasons but that is not the fault of the show.

Once he was in Essos in the books his character arc got boring (to me personally) as well.

>Where do whores go is no different than kill the boy and she's fucking Lancel and Osmund Kettleback and Moonboy for all I know.

Correct, those repeated a thousand times were both bad.Rhaegar = Pancho Villa confirmed!It reminded us of Foo Dogs/Lions.Aztec/Mayan seems like a weird architectural design choice for the Targaryens.Indeed. A lot of those were at Chichen Itza when I visited. Consider the obsidian connection, though.  
  
...ooh, maybe we'll see a... wait, must google the name of that thing... a macuahuitl, I guess! A 'wooden sword/mace with bits of obsidian' thing!how many other cultures build dragon inspired architecture? I was reminded of these at Tenochtitlan too.

https://ak9.picdn.net/shutterstock/videos/9522062/thumb/1.jpg?i10c=img.resize(height:160)Norway and China/east Asia off the top of my headI'd hesitate to call feathered serpents like Quetzalcoatl or Kukulkan "dragons." But beyond that... a bunch of them? I mean, statues of dragons are not unknown to the medieval world.

But my point had less to do with that and more to do with how Targaryen architecture tends to be described, IE fused black stone that seems to have been sculpted rather than carved. I always pictured something very fluid and curvy in its design, while Aztec/Mayan architecture tends to be very angular.[removed][removed]Looks good, your post has been approved.You are reading too much into the shit comment. Barristan:

> You may foul your breeches. I did, in my first battle. No one will care. All **battlefields smell of shit.** > TLDR: There’s a strong case to be made that the White Walkers don’t actually have the means of getting past the Wall and are therefore engaged in an elaborate psy-ops campaign designed to scare people into over-reacting to the threat they pose and thereby bringing them the means of their escape: dragons.

I think you are half-right, in that they *were* engaged in psychological warfare, however I don't think the solution they are seeking are the as-yet to materialise dragons, rather, I think the solution they sought has now been found, and it's the mark on Bran's arm that will ultimately bring the wall down. I would argue that what the Others probably wanted was to force a confrontation between the wildlings and the Night's Watch. Attack the wildlings, force them to clump together in a huge army/settlement for survival, her them south, and then let them crash upon The Wall. Maybe they'll bring it down for you. Try to assassinate the Night's Watch leaders with a few well-placed wights. When the Night's Watch tries to venture out in force to find out what they're up to, smash them in the face and send them scurrying home; you've killed enough to be sure the wildlings will finish the job. Maybe the wildlings successfully take The Wall without destroying it in the end, but it's a decent gamble and you're no worse off than you were before if they fail.

Besides, they seem to have had other irons in the fire. They're definitely interested in getting at Bloodraven, and if the theory that Sam has the real Horn of Winter is right, then that thing was surrounded with dragonglass for a *reason*.I usually don't read these kinds of theories, but it sounds intriguing, especially the wight dragon part, which I think might happen this season.  It certainly would be an interesting tactic on the White Walker front that I would have never expected originally.  Good thinking on this.  We'll have to see how this season pans out and revisit this post afterward. He told me that he loved me. What a fool I must have been to believe him... Not a chance in hell.This is pretty unlikely, Tywin loved Joanna deeply, plus if he had her killed or imprisoned someone would know, and that information would get out.> sure it's been said before


It is first time for me to read about the idea that Tywin killed or imprisoned Joanna Lannister. I thought I had heard everything. The valonqar prophecy was cut from the show. And then they accidentally ruined the prophecy by giving Cersei another kid. So I'm not too sure they're planning on following that particular part of the story in the books. 1) I doubt one-handed Jaime could kill Brienne no matter how hard he tried.

2) that would be extremely unsatisfying from a narrative and character arc standpoint. A man on a horse with a lance doesn't need an extra hand.I guess. I mean he kinda does need an extra hand for a shield. Jaime remarks in the books that his jousting says are over for this reason. There would be absolutely no logical reason for a one handed man to go into a battle with a lance as his weapon. But yet there he is in the trailer with a lance. Maybe he picked it up out of the ground ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ 


Of course, I still don't see why Brienne would be on that field of fire from the trailer which is clearly in the south. It obviously was bathed in dragon fire, so unless Brienne pledges her sword to Dany and abandons Sansa to go fight in the south, I don't see why she would be there. Could be they send her there.>let's assume here that the prince that was promised and azor ahai are the same prophecy

.

>"Your grandsire commanded it. A woods witch had told him that the prince was promised **would be born of their (Aerys and Rhaella) line.**"

Doesn't seem to fit. You're forgetting "wake dragons out of stone" and wield "Lightbringer"Aemon's second test was almost certainly Summerhall and his first was the Small Council to determine who be King, about 26 years before. I kinda fucks with it.

There's gotta be some reason why the baby swap seems to be important. The other shoe has to drop at some point. It's probably not *this,* but it's still an interesting theory nonetheless.It would be kind of fun if it turned out like this. Aegon's a fake, Ned and Wylla are Jon's parents, Tywin not only fathered all three of his children but Dany as well, but here you go: dozens of secret Targs stashed at the Wall.I had this idea that Mance's son and Gilly will die in Oltown and the death of the kid would be enough Kingsblood to let Sam to blow the Horn of Joramun and fuck shit upThere are only 3 dragons. If the White Walkers split into 4 or more armies, the dragon advantage is mitigated.
Wildfire is difficult to produce and must be transported from Kings Landing all the way to the North.
And dragonglass isn't a super weapon, it just allows the White Walkers to be hurt at all.

Plus we don't know if the WWs have there own anti-dragon weapons.Everyone is acting like Dany has dragons fucking mind-melded or something. She is a far cry away from being able to masterfully control her dragons like Aegon. Though I'll agree that the White Walkers would have a hard time against fully prepared heroes, I think the real struggle at play is just the question of whether the heroes will be able to assemble all of the weapons they need to crush them in time. Dragonstone has a ton of dragonglass, and Dany has the dragons, but right now she is focused on retaking her kingdom, and from her perspective Jon is just another rebel. It's also possible Euron might end up stealing one or more dragons with that horn and he has that massive fleet, so in trying to secure her kingdom she could end up making it that much harder to focus on the WW.To be honest, Dany's army has never really even seen snow, much less fought in it. Plus, the White Walkers take advantage of the fact that they're scary. Seriously, just the psychological effect of their fodder being rotting corpses helps them quite a bit.I feel like there is more to the White Walkers power, specifically the Night King's, that we aren't aware of yet.

We saw him crack the earth around the cave, I imagine there will be some magical elements in his combat style.There are theories that the White Walkers will capture and convert one of the dragons.  Every living thing that is killed, becomes a soldier of the NK. 

So any "fire" power the army of the living has, can be used by the army of the dead, as long as it is killed. 

So as long as nothing dies, the army of the living should be alright. They will most likely try to attack where winter rages most. Snowstorms would ground the dragons, leaving Danaerys with only ground infantry. Depends, doesn't it? In the show, she's already there. In the books she isn't, and a lot of people insist that Euron may steal one of her dragons using the Dragon Horn... but it's equally possible that someone like Morqorro may be able to re-purpose the horn to serve Daenery's ends and give her firmer control of her children.

My point is, at the point the only real vision we have of the future is the show, and there she has pretty firm control over the dragons. Gorghan of Old Ghis's adage about visions and prophecies may yet bear true, even in this regard, but my suspicion is Daenerys will arrive in Westeros with at least an improved ability to guide and direct the creatures. And why should she believe Jon? As far as she knows, he's the son of one of the men who most greatly contributed to the downfall of her family.I agree, but he's gonna need some pretty cool tricks up his sleeve to gain ground here.Right, but they'd have to bring one of them down, first. They do not have a lot of ways to do that at the moment.NightFlyer CONFIRMED.  Undead dragon.the armies of westeros can avoid this by not being where winter rages most. It would take a truly nasty storm to ground the dragons, and even then a well defended position guarded by those grounded dragons, plus a moat of fire, plus obsidian weapons, could probably do quite well against a wight/Other onslaught.> leaving Danaerys with only ground infantry

Infantry that is from an arid climate. Winter does not bode well for them.As we saw in season 5 with Drogon saving Danaerys, he was getting hurt by spears getting thrown at him. Now imagine if a white walker threw a spear at a dragons neck, we've seen how white walkers have super human strength back when they invaded Hardhome. Remember when that white walker fought Jon and pushed him a few meters, how much more powerful would the NK be? 

Also now that it's confirmed that there are giant wights in their army, it doesn't seem unlikely for at least one dragon to get killed by one of the giants weapons. Whether its a bow or a spear. We've seen Drogon almost be taken down just by a few lucky hits with spears. The fact is, these are animals, not immortal monsters who can take anything you throw at them. The Night King has the numbers to make waste, unlike the humans. He can just make more wights when they hit a good size town.So most of the north? If the Others bring winter, rather than the opposite, they will slowly cover Westeros in winter.Obsidian weapons are only effective against Others. Storms levelled the playing fields against Balerion, Meraxes, and Vhagar during Aegon's war for the Stormlands.The dragons have never really been in a huge storm, let alone a snow storm. Those Dothraki horses are going to die like flies in the snow, and there goes their one advantage.  The Dothraki are going to be more hindrance than help.Drogon at that point was also much, much smaller than he is now. In the books adult dragons are noted to be almost impervious to projectiles, as Tyrion mentions in ADWD:

> If anyone had thought to ask him, Tyrion could have told them not to bother. Unless one of those long iron scorpion bolts chanced to find an eye, the queen’s pet monster was not like to be brought down by such toys. *Dragons are not so easy to kill as that. Tickle him with these and you’ll only make him angry.*

> The eyes were where a dragon was most vulnerable. The eyes, and the brain behind them. Not the underbelly, as certain old tales would have it. The scales there were just as tough as those along a dragon’s back and flanks. And not down the gullet either. That was madness. These would-be dragonslayers might as well try to quench a fire with a spear thrust. “Death comes out of the dragon’s mouth,” Septon Barth had written in his Unnatural History, “but death does not go in that way.”

I see little difference between a giant-thrown spear and a Scorpion bolt. The same rule applies: you better hit the eye because you won't get a second chance.We've never seen any wights making use of ranged weaponry, in the show or books. I question if they have the motor skills.This is spot on. We know dragons can totally be killed by men, so I'm pretty sure an army of wights could take one down easily enough. Pretty sure Tyrion references a book about killing dragons in one of his chapters also. Sustained snow storms could be a serious problem for Daenerys. It's still a little unclear at this point if The Others *cause* bad winter weather, or if they merely choose to attack in tandem with it. If the first case, Dany is very much in trouble. If it's the second case she might be vulnerable to a well timed ambush... but only once.

Again, a powerful defensive position with dragons, fire, maybe wildfire, and obsidian would do a lot to keep both Others and wights at bay. Although, if the army of the dead was numerous enough, the defenders could potentially be worn down over time in that scenario. Even dragons need to rest, eventually.I had forgotten about that! They actually couldn't fly at all because of the storm, if I'm remembering correctly. OMG! That is major game changer I had totally forgotten about! Great point. We've seen some of the fresher wights use swords, though I doubt that those would do much to a dragon. But again, the question is about ranged weapons. I suppose the Night King would need to get the dragons on the ground, closer to where his fodder can reach. 

He can create his own storms, which would ground a dragon.Dragons being killed by men is something of a rarity, though. In the history of Westeros, it's usually happened when A) somebody got lucky with a Scorpion volley, or B) in the case of the storming of the Dragonpit, thousands of people swarmed a grounded dragon. Otherwise men trying to kill dragons end up like poor Byron Swann.

I'll grant that wights might be able to pull off that second scenario, but only if the dragon is stuck on the ground with no ability to escape.It would become a war of attrition, with the Others starving the defending army by razing the lands. At some point the armies of men will have to go on the offense.Not to mention the bastard brother of Torghen the King Who Knelt planned to sneak into the Targaryen camp to kill their dragons. In one of Bran's visions, we see an individual making weirwood arrows. Some theorize that these arrows could be effective against dragons.> in the case of the storming of the Dragonpit, thousands of people swarmed a grounded dragon.

Hundreds of unarmed peasants swarmed over and killed several dragons.  Dragons, on the ground, are dead meat.That's true, but only if the Others can genuinely control the weather. If they can't, or if Daenerys runs up against a wight army that doesn't have its "handlers" near at hand, then there's no need to go into a defensive position. She could easily go out on seek-and-destroy missions atop a dragon, burning any wight horde she finds. After all, wights have appeared in the books without Others in tow, and they have appeared without there being a big snowstorm. That suggests either an Other has to be present to affect the weather, or that instances where they've seemed to control the weather has just been a matter of good timing.

I also think a reasonable case has been made elsewhere that Daenerys' trip home in the books may be more eventful than in the show, with possible pitstops at Volantis and Pentos. From a base at Dragonstone she could very reasonably import food from across the Narrow Sea and her allies in Essos, possibly even with the help of the Iron Bank who will be looking to back someone else against Cersei.

At least in the show, it appears that Others can sort of extend their reach over the corpses by using magical symbols. Plus, we know just one Other can control a great number of wights.

The Night King knows that he only has so many Others, especially given that he knows weapons capable of killing them do exist. So I expect any lone Other is advised to be on their guard and cautious, which would mean that they would likely be either away from the heavy fighting and hidden away, especially if there was a dragon.by the laws of gods and men, and the citadel from which the intro is inspired... Cersei is still the widowed queen of Robert Baratheon, first of his name, the dowager queen mother of the late Tommen Baratheon, first of his name.  
  
No matter what she claims herself to be in ceremony, this is how she is *officially* recognized by the Westeros record keepers.  Noticed this too. Was waiting for the Lion since she was crowned Cersei of House Lannister in the finale. I'm gonna be really pissed if we don't get a good explanation, inexcusable mistake by the show if they didn't mean to do it. >inexcusable mistake 

That's not overly dramatic at all.Jon would know to burn him. Therefore no.I thought it was Mag the Mighty...Same actor. Ian Whyte. But no not Wun Wun. Yes, the Night King borrowed Baelish's teleporter to move Wun Wun's corpse northNo no no No, he died south of the Wall.No.YesBrandon's not a dishonoring rapist. Ned's deserved of a piece of the pie one in a while too, even if your brother serves it to you. 

But, if you're right, it would explain the TOJ battle scene a little better, vengeance for and by both sides. 

I don't think that battle went down like that, I'm not sure there was even a battle, maybe it's just a story. Whatever occurred did so in a very vague and fevered and unclear way.But if Brandon gets Ashara pregnant at the Tourney of Harrenhal, she can't have the stillborn right before she kills herself. There's too much time passing. So what's your theory about the baby?

Honestly, I'm suspicious of this idea of a Stark dishonoring her, and it meaning she was raped or got pregnant at the Tourney.  Remember, Barristan also says that she was dishonored and then *turned to Stark.*  That would be weird if they were the same person. 

A part of me thinks that the person who dishonored her was Rhaegar. He was the one who had access to her in King's Landing, and his actions at the Tourney of Harrenhal could be what was "the dishonor", like if Ashara was in love with Rhaegar, and he told her he wasn't in love with Elia, and then she saw him crown Lyanna and it made her distraught. *Then*, she turned to Stark (who would be Brandon) and *that's* part of the reason that Brandon was outraged at Rhaegar, and later why he immediately suspects Rhaegar once Lyanna disappears. 

As for a baby, stillborn or otherwise, I'm not sure.  But there's a lot of options there, ffrom it being Brandon's (I doubt it) or even *Rhaegar's*, which would be interesting (R+A=D anyone? Lol)

I've always thought it was weird that Rhaegar took Lyanna to a tower in Dorne. Maybe he had been there before with Ashara?  Tower of Joy, indeed. I like your theory and if true, the scene when Ned returns Dawn to Star fall had to have been a heartrending one. Ashara understanding that she had chosen the worthless brother(as girls are won't to do when young), knowing that she just lost her own brother in a battle of honor on both sides...it would certainly explain suicide. I really like it; Barristan and Ned Stark both consider each other incredibly honorable men. Many people consider Barristan unreliable due to his Pro-targaryen bias, I disagree, but using Barristan's council to Dany combined with his later recollection on the "Harrenhal Affair" if he had any ill will towards Ned Stark it would have for sure shown through if he were unreliable, to me that says that The Stark he was thinking of was certainly not Ned.

 I know Barristan also recounts that Daenerys has the same eyes as Ashara; I'm a huge fan of the theory that Dany is not who she thinks, and possibly the daughter of Ashara. I love how you connect the two events to explain how Lyanna and Ned could've thought of the idea from the original plot with Brandon.

To your questions, I don't think Ned was happy to cover a lie for either Brandon or Ashara, he would've said yes to Brandon because otherwise it would have brought great dishonor upon his house, his Father would have been furious for ruining his southron ambitions, if you're aware of that theory. He said yes to Lyanna, because it was the right thing to do, and Ned's weakness is saying no. 

To Benjen, I think he knew of Lyanna and Rhaegar, and he saw the war it brought, the shame it brought on Ned, and the turmoil it caused the entire realm and his only living family; for all these reasons, I think he took the Black out of intense guilt a bit of a "qui tacet consentire videtur", he who is silent consents, now I do think Ned was mad at him, but Benjen was young, and he basically ran away to the wall. The irony of it all was that Ned would probably have preferred for Benjen to stay, but young tempers flare, and the Watch is for life.....The most convincing argument I've seen for this is that via Rugen the Jailer, Ashara could've visited Brandon while he was in the black cells.

That being said I'm not convinced of B+A=D, really more of an X+A=D, I think it could equally be Rhaegar, and that would give her far more legitimacy in terms of being a Targaryen, but I don't know why Arhur would support Jon if he knew a daughter by his sister had an equal claim. Then there's also Aerys+Ashara=Dany, I wish that Barristan remembered more...

Loved your Analysis of Ned's Fever Dream and the exchange at the Tower of Joy btw, but if she is of Rhaegar and Ashara,I'm not sure why Arthur so fervently defended Jon.I dont exactly agreed with jon either. Treason that goes unpunished is invite treason in the future. I'm not saying execute the kid, but there are range of punishment between execution to no punishment at all. 

Stripping both of them of their title and have them be married to another family is a good middle ground. Marry the umber boy to lyanna mormont then give their second born the umber land is a nice compromise and do the same to the karstark girl.

Which is what kinda happen in the book and it even made by jon snow. This is just an attempt to create drama between sansa and jon. > Who is right? Jon or Cersei?  
  
Both and neither. Machiavelli advises that it's best to be both loved and feared, and if you have to choose one, it's feared. Jon is, I think, trying for both.  
  
Also, honestly, social decisions are usually judged and justified post-factum, there is no one-size-fits-all. If we were not coming up to the end of the story, Lord Glover or someone else could well rebel against Jon next season, feeling slighted. Since we are, he won't.  
  
> Does Sansa still want to be a queen?  
  
Sansa wants power over her life and her decisions. That's about it. She feels betrayed and cynical about the old patriarchal arrangement where *men take care of you* and wants to avoid ever being beholden to these men's decisions. That's her huge similarity with Cersei - and Littlefinger, who had a similar formative experience with Brandon Stark (only that, for him, since he's a man, it wasn't 'men have more power', it was '*rich* men have more power). And until Westeros stops being so misogynist, this story - Cersei's story, and now Sansa's story - of being caught in the cage of benevolent sexism - will repeat.  
  
Give Sansa space and responsibilities and a voice in the decisions, assure her that Jon won't try to marry her off or do something equally degrading, and her anxiety about Jon potentially disempowering her (which, of course, he probably won't, being Jon and having met Ygritte and Karsi) will subside.I can never understand Jon's decision. smallJon literally killed Rickon, their baby brother. The least Jon could do was to take away their lands and castle and give them to a loyalist.Theres a reason that scene didn't happen in a closed room with Jon simply signing letters. The Lords needed to hear his commands, and they needed to have the chance to debate. And when Lord Glover protested one of Jon's orders he was flat put down by Lady Mormont. It is the same thing with Sansa; she disagreed and she spoke her mind about it. A lot of people say she shouldn't have spoken up because as family she needs to support him, and there is truth to that. But as an equal, one of the three on the high bench, perhaps she is best suited to speak against him because evidently it was also an opinion that some of the other Lords shared.All else being equal, I do agree with Sansa. There needs to be some repercussions to ensure others do not challenge your rule. If you try to stick a knife in me and miss, I'm not going to just laugh it off; I'm going to break your arm so you don't try it again.

However, under the circumstances, I believe Jon could get away with a lack of punishment even if it wasn't necessary for the plot to move forward. This is because many (most) of the other houses also broke their oaths by waiting for the Battle of the Bastards to play out. That makes it so there's too many people to punish severely. If you're a teacher, and your whole class goes crazy, you can give them all detention, but you're not going to expel them all from your class, because then you wouldn't have a class. 

Therefore, the best solution IMO would be to give the houses who rallied behind Jon some significant reward, while imposing some minor punishment (a higher tax for example) on the remaining houses. However, postponement of their dispersion/infliction is reasonable given the plethora of other things going on.Sansa learned southern lessons. A different place and a different time now that it's winter. 

What I find most interesting is how Jon was completely against Sansa speaking up. Sansa acted like a queen to Jon's king. It looks like DnD are pushing Sansa as a leader which I assume will happen when Jon leaves to complete his destiny. Will she screw everything up as much as Cersei? DnD may not have the time to explore that but its an interesting thought, at least for the books. When your enemies defy you, you must serve them steel and fire. When they go to their knees, however, you must help them back to their feet. Elsewise no man will ever bend the knee to you. - Tywin Lannister 

The guy was smart. Jon did the right thing. I don't think Cersei is right, but there's a reason she survived longer than Jon, who did in fact die from his mistakes. Not that Cersei's way to sustainable either. Heck, it's left her alone and without really anything to live for.>  Ahhh... It seems like only yesterday Cersei was getting hammered in a tower

My mind went to a *completely* different scene for a second.if Salsa goes full Cersei i don't think anyone will forgive the writers

ideally she does the political maneuvering without the executions and kinfuckery.That why Ned took Theon as ward once he put down the Greyjoy revolution.  Jon could have done something simiilar

If Jon disowned the Umbers he would lose them just as Robb lost the Karstarks. Both approaches make sense but Jon took the better short-term solution by keeping a major house on his side. He can probably reward the loyalists in an other way at the expense of the Umbers and Karstarks while keeping all his allies.People keep quoting that yet they ignore that Tywin Lannister would have obliterated any House that was responsible for the murder of his brother. https://youtu.be/t7bdr6fjg-khahahahaha

Wow.  I didn't think that through.  Could go either way, I suppose.Well maybe a little kinfuckery...She could pull a Littlefinger on Littlefinger by pulling Littlefinger's little finger in the sack, doing what little birds do in the sack, and tricking Littlefinger into giving up the Vale for Sansa.They already stopped characterizing her as empathetic and fundamentally non violent (which were two of her most important personality traits). Hopefully they stop this trend soon enough. Sansa is fundametally this person:

> If i'm ever Queen, I'll make them love meI hope she does the evil without the stupidity. I want the Darth Salsa we were promised at the end of S4!I hate the thought of her being a full blown Cersei.  I truly hope that she takes a combination of all the things she learned from Cersei and Baelish, along with the people in her life like her father, and just turns out to be a badass.> That why Ned took Theon as ward once he put down the Greyjoy revolution

I agree with you, but it's not like *that* turned out well for the Starks either. They simply raised a resentful person that profoundly betrayed them in their hour of need. I think people are skimming over the second meaning behind Jon's words as well. He said he wouldn't strip their ancestral home from them because of a few people's mistakes. I think he was calling back to how not too long ago, they lost their ancestral home for similar reasons. From my perspective, Jon was sympathizing.Tywin Lannister isn't Jon. And Tywin Lannister is dead because he treated his own son like shit.

Sansa has a point, but Jon did the right thing in this situation.i think the main reason they won't/shouldn't make her a heartless killer is that it's just terrible character development. 

all the stuff about learning from Littlefinger, plus Cersei, plus her experiences with Ramsay, and she just becomes like Cersei? it's just lazy. a better way to portray her is streetwise but fundamentally good -- like Jon has had to become to survive after literally getting killed over doing the right thing.

edit: also, Cersei isn't very smart. she's got more vengeance than common sense and has gotten lucky thus far...that was some wildfire ex machina if i ever saw it. Sansa would do well not to become like her.Just because Cersei said it, doesn't mean what she says was right.

Meaning, whatever quot you can find for anything, doesn't make it right.

And no, Cersei is not "badass". She is insane and doing crazy idiot stuff in the books and the show. She got her son killed in the show.THe thing is she learned only from the most toxic assholes in Westeros (she betrayed her father to Cersei, after all. So much for Winter is Coming AND Familty, Duty, Honor). 

Applying those lessons doesn't make her badass, it makes her a cunt like Cersei.

She can _use_ the information she gathered, but she should not take it as gospel.This is going to sound weird but I think we have too many characters just 'turning out to be badasses'. We already have Daenerys with her contrived one liners, and imperious fire-and-blood glares she does while toppling torches over to set people on fire or saying 'Dracarys' to her dragons. 

I don't want Sansa to turn into a Baelish-Varys-Tywin Lannister political super genius just so the audience can see her put on a smirk and say 'Yeah! Kickass!'Another thing to remember is that Jon is now a "King". This quote was to King Jeoffrey. Big difference being a lord and a king, different responsibility.What I hope is that she learns from Jon as well, I hope that she truly believes that he is good at leading and takes note of how he leads.I've never thought it like that but you know what? You're right. It is kinda contrived. But at the same time I'd be kinda pissed that she's still useless after all this time. Fair enough.  I personally feel like Arya will take the dark turn.  But either way, I'm sure we won't wind up with all the Stark children wearing halo's at the end of this.I think Arya will be a very harsh and traditional justice type of characters, she's always very much been her own person. I think it's more likely we see Sansa shaped by the people around her, she seems much more easily influenced whereas Arya has always been a right and wrong character. Very much a tether to reality in the whole "morally complex redemption" idea game of thrones carriesThe diagram in the book is roughly [Al-Biruni's phases of the moon.](https://www.google.com/search?q=al%20biruni%20phases%20of%20the%20moon) Well the Year of the False Spring ended around when Aegon was concieved, Rhaegar saw the Red Comet over the city that very night. Perhaps the Red Comet brings with it also a magical change in the seasons. The one thing I'd like to point out is that the comet comes by far more often than every 1000 years, other than that, you may be on to something...I'm pretty confident that you can sum up GRRM's overall view of magic with "The Night is Dark and Full of Terrors." There are forces people don't truly understand at work in the world, the Greater Mysteries. Their ultimate source and nature don't really matter that much, because we'll probably never know what they are. What matters is how people react to them, how they use (or misuse) what scraps of that power they can bend to their own purposes.That actually probably makes more sense. There were 5 phases of the planet drawn but only 1 that was really close. So maybe it passes every 200 years but when it hits that 5th pass, it triggers something because its so close.I hope your theory on the dragon horn is right too. OH I WAS RIGHT! I thought it was Ygritte.It's kind of a letdown that it appears his character only exists to react to Cersei. I mean tbf he *does* love her. Or he thinks he does. But I agree, I'm getting kind of tired of not seeing the immediate reactions to stuff. We don't see Cersei's immediate reaction to Tyrion, Jaime to Cersei's terrorism, Sansa to magic, etc etc. I think it is all setting up for him to kill her to mirror the past. Stab that bitch in the back, Jaime, and then we'll rule Casterly Rock together! Mwahahaha!I think he is angry and afraid and she is mostly avoiding talking to him about it. He even mentions that. And she threatens him about the whole Tyrion thing again. He's in a scary and sad situation. I feel bad for him. he's secretly horrified by what she did or at least how she so conveniently ascended the throne, but also a little worried that speaking up about it might get him killed.And I think that look at the end of season 6 was real. Have you ever been so upset by what something that someone you loved did that it breaks you in half but you try to make it work anyway? Oy that's a big cuntDANY: "Drogon, come to Mama"!  
SANDOR: (snorts derisively) "You named your dragon"?  
DANY: "Lots of people name their dragons"  
SANDOR: "Lots of cunts" There goes a stupid flying cuntI thought it might make a good [GIF](http://i.imgur.com/BCclDca.gif). (or perhaps a [meme](http://i.imgur.com/4ZnqSyV.jpg)?)YES, this is perfection. thank you!Welp that's the winner.... GRR is adding that into the book and show... now he has to rewrite the book... from scratch... way to fucking go.Well, that gave me a good laugh!  Being old(er) and technically challenged, I think this is as close as I will ever get to Reddit fame. Just trying to help GRRM get past his writer's block.  You know who has writer's blocks... cunts.Does Cersei return the gift in Ep 3 that Euron gives her in Episode 2?!The gift is going to be a dragon. The Cersi will give it back to Dany. MaybeUnexpected visitor is Mel, right?
Cersei returns a gift? Does she kill a sand snake? Or maybe Ellaria?Episode 3, the gift returned will be the locket/snake threat from Dorne.

The gift Euron went to get is Myrcella's killers. Or at least a sand snake. We see one in the episode 2 trailer for a scene.Guessing Melisandra is probably Dany's unexpected visitor...Eurons gift is getting returned. What could it be, that she'd return it?Faces a revolt? I feel like they're trying to trick us into thinking that his parentage gets revealed to the public. Especially paired with that bit of Bronze Yohn yelling about not trusting Targaryens in the sneak peakWell, Cersei returns a gift could also mean that she gifts something to Euron in return for the gift he had promised and now gave her.Exactly this. Ellaria will get a taste of what it's like to have her daughter taken from her and (likely) killed by her enemies.

I'm interested to see if Tyrion discovers that Ellaria murdered his niece as a result of this, and if so, how it impacts the stability of Camp Dany


Edit: Here's the gift in question for anyone wondering http://imgur.com/W3jkM9y from Season 5 Ep. 2It is very likely Euron or Cersei wouldn't be able to return the gift in the next episode.

Euron likely kidnapps someone and Cersei sends back his/her head.Why not Euron? Since Cersi's gift comes in the next episode.You don't think Jon is Dany's unexpected visitor?I agree.  How do you think that interaction will go?Hopefully not his "big cock" he was going to gift to Dany...I can't see them revealing it this yearly, but yeah, might be a trick. 

I feel like they've turned his parentage into the big cliff-hanger. Will they reveal it? When?[removed]I'm MOST interested in *Jaime learns from his mistakes.*

WHAAAATYeah especially since it was Tyrion's decision to send Myrcella there, to keep her safe :( I hope he does find out!not yet.  he's not going to leave winterfell and land in dragonstone in the same episode. I'm hoping Varys and Tyrion will tell her about what a mess she was for Stannis and Dany sends her away (I'm sure at minimum Varys will speak out against her since he hates sorcerers so much), but before she goes she shows Dany the Others/ war in the North in her flames and proclaims her AA/PtwP.  

Then I hope Mel runs into Arya, after being shunned by Dany and co, and Arya kills her breaking her glamour and as she lays there as a dying old woman she tells Arya that Gendry is still alive. 

(Sorry if typos, on mobile)Mel: "Oh...hello. I, uh, I'll just be gathering my things."

Dany: "You look trustworthy. Advise me."

Tyrion: /facepalmguess this type of disconnection runs in the familyYour [comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6o54kw/spoilers_extended_s7_episode_2_3_descriptions/dkewqz5/?context=3) in /r/asoiaf was removed because links from this site have been determined to not be reputable. Please find a more reputable source and feel free to resubmit. 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*That's definitely a tease at him killing Cersei. Just to create hype probably, I wouldn't expect it to happen that early in the season. Or that they'd put it in the description. But then again they named an episode the Battle of the Bastards last season so who knowsBe a bit much that, even for GoT's pacing. I think it'll happen in episode 4.I've really grown to love Mel, so I'd hate to see ger go.

But I also really want to see Gendry again, soo...Mel:  I'm very magical.  I once birthed a shadow-baby that murdered the enemy of my king.  But please don't ask for references.  The only other guy who saw it hates my guts because I burned his favorite human under the age of 15 alive to win a battle that wound up being the biggest military embarrassment the 7 kingdoms has seen in years.  I also have 4,678 years of experience.  No...really."Look, I know my resume has a dead would-be king, but there's also a resurrected current King on there so I feel like I'm pretty qualified"You think?  I'm trying to think of Jaime's most notable "mistakes"...(or things he would consider mistakes, anyway).

* Killing someone he pledged his life to protect.
* Pushing a toddler out of a tower in Winterfell.
* Not using protection when banging members of his immediate family.
* Saving his little brother and then not sticking around long enough to make sure the trauma of his family's betrayal hadn't left him unstable, thereby enabling the murder of the most intelligent Lannister.
* Underestimating the strategic aptitude of a dude who somehow managed to convince the most stubborn old men in the Realm to kneel and call him "The King in the North."
* Antagonizing a (clearly) psychotic gang-leader with snarky bribe proposals until he snaps and cuts off an appendage.
* Questionable (non-consensual) incest at a teenagers funeral.
* Letting his daughter kiss random strangers on the beach during her extended Spring Break in Dorne.>I've really really grown to love Mel

Yeah if you can get past the fact that she burned an innocent princess at the stake, she's alright I guessThe creators of the show know that everybody that reads the books and watches the show have been waiting for confirmation that Jaime kills Cersei. So yeah I think they're trying to fake us out. Like they did with mentioning Benjen in the "previously on" in season 5 episode 10That's on our king. She merely counseled. What is this 'Big Green Bang'? All I know of is Cersei's BBQ Bonanza!As to why and how Cersei got and remained on the throne after she blew up the Sept would be a mystery for years to come. In truth, Cersei should have been met with great resistance from all Westerosi noble and common folk. The Andal houses especially would have been extraordinarily angered by her actions. Cersei should have been dethroned on day one. 

My belief is that she would blame the explosion on Danny supporters within the city. However, any investigative person would deem Cersei's absence at her trial suspicious. 

In truth, the writers don't care about it and the casual viewer may not care either. wildfire doesn't melt sept beamsThere is not an explanation for that, D&D doesnt care about that shit. Same as "Why the lannister let dragonstone without guards for months?" who knows!, it worked for the scene!, its tv drama!!. Same as Arya face-shape training, whend did she learn magic? whops doesnt matter, SHE KILLED ALL THE FREYS wooohooo!!!, with VENOM!!, where did she got all the ve... LEAVE ONE WOLF ALIVE AND THE SHEEP ARENEVERSAFE!!! VENGANCE at last, as easy as Jon ressurrecting for free. Why did he resurrected? DOESNT MATTER, ITS A NICE CLIFFHANGER DAVE!! it will be explained on the books dave, dont worry.Official line is that some R'hllor extremists blew it up.

However, we all know that to be a lie. Sept of Baelor was an inside Job. Cersei Lannister did 6/10. Wildfyre can't melt stone pillars.I wouldn't assume we're not going to get anything on this, we just haven't yet. Whether it's a glimpse of unrest amongst the small folk, or they generally bought a lie presented to them by the crown, or maybe just the fact that cersei did this successfully scared the fuck out of the people and they're afraid to publically protest. There's still a lot of season left, and it makes sense they wanted to start the season between her and Jaime discussing the war on all sides of them.The High Sparrow is dead, poisoned by his enemies.

Margaery Baratheon died, poisoned by her enemies.

Kevan...You're right that it hasn't been mentioned at all. I'm sure it was probably just blamed it on Mad King Aerys II; perhaps removed a few of the other wildfire cashes throughout King's Landing will be removed, offscreen, of course. I feel like the official story is that she's a grieving Mother, Tommen was so overcome by Margaery's death that he took his own life. With the realm in turmoil, Cersei stepped up to rule the Kingdom. After that explosion though, removing a few of the other cashes, she'll be looked at as a hero, I doubt she will really have to answer for it, especially not from the smallfolk of the city, perhaps if another Lord brought charges, but she did very well in eliminating most of them... Either the commoners don't know for sure, or are too scared to speak out at present.You seem like a pleasant individual. Holy shit though, it's actually possible that Cersei could play this off as an accident... maybeIt was obviously a controlled demolition. We don't even know if Jaime knows what was up or has found out after the fact. We should at least have gotten that.What are you talking about? They weren't poisoned.She would probably tell people that Tommen was there. That seems easy enough.Sure, she just blames it on one of the Mad King's forgotten caches. That was one of the outcomes I was hoping to find out. That one she could play off telling Jaime how he knows what a nut Aerys was. I just can't see Jaime being OK with the very thing he became the Kingslayer over.It's a joke. When Ramsey killed his father Roose Bolton, he insisted that his maester spread the word that Roose was "poisoned by his enemies." Now, "poisoned by their enemies" is a joke about coming up with a transparent excuse about how a character died, when in reality they were murdered by someone close to them who wants to keep it secret.poisoned by their enemies is a meme. Ramsey said Roose was "poisoned by their enemies" after Ramsey stabbed him to death. What were you smoking? They were definitely poisoned. No doubt about it. The weapon of Eunuchs.https://youtu.be/nNI-Pqsk-Tk?t=163What's her excuse for not being at her own trial though?Yeah, Cersei could play it off as an accident, but to any inquisitive lord it would likely appear pretty suspicious that the Sept just *happened* to explode when all of Cersei's adversaries were inside and she & Tommen were conveniently not there *for her own trial.*

Plus, in the same episode Olenna despairs about how Cersei wiped out the Tyrell line, so we know there's at least one character who won't buy whatever statement the Crown puts out. And she happens to now back Cersei's biggest threat, so there's that to consider as well.Thank you for the clarification. You rock!🐲I was smoking Girl Scout Cookies and I was talking about them blowing up in the Big Green Bang.BathroomArya kills Cersei

Assumes Cersei's Identity

Legitimizes Jon Snow as Jon Stark 

Dissolves the empire of the seven Kingdoms, but not before mobilizing the armies of the seven kingdoms and toppling the white walkers, while ending the long nights forever 

installs a lasting confederated and decentralized democracy consisting of the countries, kingdoms and city-states of westeros.

unintentionally creates a legacy for Cersei where she is remember simultaneously as the First and Greatest Queen-Sovereign the Seven Kingdoms ever saw; the most influential women in the history of the known planetos; and is generally revered as the person responsible for quelling the white walkers, and abolishing long winters forever.

she dies of old age known as Cersei the Great.My thoughts: 

Arya returns home after reunion with Nymeria (the lone wolf proverb on her mind after said reunion). Jon is down in Dragonstone, and Sansa is Lord of Winterfell while he's gone, so Sansa has a tearful reunion with her for 2.5 seconds, and then she'll be like, "oh shit, you're totally a bad ass assassin now, you should take out Cersi, since that's what you were going to do anyway and we can focus on stuff that matters, like a frozen undead army to our north and stuff" without Jon there to tell her it's not a great idea and they need all the fighters they can get to fight NK and his undead frozen army. 

She'll try killing Cersi and get caught (either by Jaime, zombie!Mountain, or Qyburn), obviously resulting in her death. This will likely drive Cersi further into her Mad Queen persona, since literally anyone could be a faceless assassin, and the inevitable Bigger Green Bang on KL is thwarted by Jaime killing Cersi, fulfilling the prophecy and such.
Last or second to last episode for this course of action. 

Or Arya is successful in killing Cersi and meets her end in the ensuing escape from KL by Jaime/zombie!Mountain/Kingsguard or City Guard extra with a lucky arrow. Mid season for this one, methinks. 

If Arya goes, so does Cersi. I don't think either make it through this season, personally. 

Or Moonboy for all I know...either way, I'm getting tired of pouring 40s for Starks. She can  be a faceless woman. or something. According to GRRM his wife told him that if anything happens to Arya she'll leave him lolIn the books she's unkillable due to GRRM's wife and so on. I assume likewise for the Show. The wolf pack will also be super useful vs the whites as welli pick one of three scenarios:

1. she dies while trying to kill someone on her list or someone she feels justified in killing, but makes some kind of mistake and overestimates her skill

2. she dies after killing someone who didn't deserve to die, however that deserving is determined by MFG and FM

3. she dies after she was honorable and let someone go, and that person either kills her or gets her killed.Arya was always compared to Lyanna, who died tragically young. I think, unfortunately, the same will happen to Arya.I think they'll save her death til the final season second to last episode. Yet the book 1 quote still exists.  Arya isn't making it through winter one way or the other.  Maybe this is why George has been stalling.  He doesn't want his wife to leave him lol.  > The wolf pack will also be super useful vs the whites as well

Not if Summer was any indication.If anything it is #2. She may have angered the Many Faced God already by taking a whole house. Depends on how many she saves.I had been thinking that until after this episode.  As a writer, what would she do from now until then?What's the book 1 quote implying she will die? I think she'll reunite with Nymeria, get word of Cercie's death, and then (realizing everyone in her list is dead) head north to find Jon. Show might have her meet up with Sam, like how she had a run in with the Nights Watch guys in Bravos in the books. 

Edit: also in show she's gotta meet up with Mel, too! See my OP.  I quoted it. My bad I overlooked it, thanks!Many of the show castles don't match up that closely with their book incarnations. Winterfell's one of them, but the same applies to Harrenhal, and most egregiously to Dragonstone.To be fair Dragonstone in the books is a monstrous beast of a castle with so many complex dragon statues it wouldn't really be feasible for the show to create a perfect incarnation.It's justice from the monarch. Not murder. Euron is the Queens justice.He regrets the event but does not dwell on it. He has an inconclusive dream about it while he was sleeping on a weirwood stump. In the dream Rhaegar and the other kingsguard accuse him of failing to protect Aerys, Ellia and the children. In the dream, he and Brienne were under Casterly Rock. After the dream, he returns to Harranhal and saves Brienne.






Thoughts of the children return to him very late the Riverland campaign. He uses children as bargaining chips and threatens them. Very briefly, he has a flashback of the Ellia children wrapped in Lannister cloaks. 





However, he does not feel responsible for what occurred. He feels "some" guilt over it. This is the dream Jaime has in a ASOS, where Rhaegar accuses him of not protecting his family during the Sack of King's Landing

>Five had been his brothers. Oswell Whent and Jon Darry. Lewyn Martell, a prince of Dorne. The White Bull, Gerold Hightower. Ser Arthur Dayne, Sword of the Morning. And beside them, crowned in mist and grief with his long hair streaming behind him, rode Rhaegar Targaryen, Prince of Dragonstone and rightful heir to the Iron Throne. 

>“You don’t frighten me,” he called, turning as they split to either side of him. He did not know which way to face. “I will fight you one by one or all together. But who is there for the wench to duel? She gets cross when you leave her out.”

>“I swore an oath to keep him safe,” she said to Rhaegar’s shade. “I swore a holy oath.”

>“We all swore oaths,” said Ser Arthur Dayne, so sadly. 

>The shades dismounted from their ghostly horses. When they drew their longswords, it made not a sound. “He was going to burn the city,” Jaime said. “To leave Robert only ashes.”

>“He was your king,” said Darry.

>“You swore to keep him safe,” said Whent.

>“And the children, them as well,” said Prince Lewyn.

>**Prince Rhaegar burned with a cold light, now white, now red, now dark. “I left my wife and children in your hands.”**

>**“I never thought he’d hurt them.” Jaime’s sword was burning less brightly now. “I was with the king...”**

>“Killing the king,” said Ser Arthur.

>“Cutting his throat,” said Prince Lewyn.

>“The king you had sworn to die for,” said the White Bull.

>The fires that ran along the blade were guttering out, and Jaime remembered what Cersei had said. No. Terror closed a hand about his throat. Then his sword went dark, and only Brienne’s burned, as the ghosts came rushing in.
“No,” he said, “no, no, no. Nooooooooo!”

>Heart pounding, he jerked awake, and found himself in starry darkness amidst a grove of trees.




Jaime thinks about Rhaegar's children in ADWD as well.





>“My father had a saying too. Never wound a foe when you can kill him. Dead men don’t claim vengeance.” 

>“Their sons do,” said Hoster, apologetically. “Not if you kill the sons as well. Ask the Casterlys about that if you doubt me. Ask Lord and Lady Tarbeck, or the Reynes of Castamere. Ask the Prince of Dragonstone.” **For an instant, the deep red clouds that crowned the western hills reminded him of Rhaegar’s children, all wrapped up in crimson cloaks.**

Jaime has a dream where he's looked down on by Rhaegar and his deceased KG brothers where Rhaegar says:


> I left my wife and children in your hands.



To which he replies:


> "I never thought he'd hurt them." Jaime's sword was burning less brightly now. "I was with the king . . ."What does Euron have to do with the murder of Elia Martell and her children? Furthermore, killing the crown princess and her children definitely constitutes murder. How does he feel about his fathers responsibility? Is there any information on how it's affected there relationship? I suppose part of the question is if he should even feel responsible for it.

Let's be honest, he really didn't do it. He killed Aerys and likely in a traumatized daze/panic let his father's army in. But what was there for him to do? The murders of Elia and her children were particularly brutal, to the point that it's reasonable to assume no one would kill them like that. 

Jaime was a young kid who just killed his king to stop said king was burning thousands of people alive and who probably wasn't fully aware of even what was going on. He really shouldn't feel totally responsible over it.Jaime: Bruh, I'm the KINGSguard, not the PRINCESFAMILYguard. \#notmyfaultOops, somehow I read the post to understand that it asked why Jaime was okay with cersei and euron murdering sand snakes. I assume that Jaime was shocked. When Jaime killed Aerys, he assumed Elia and Aegon were still alive, unharmed. Jaime also looked up to Rhaegar and Ser Arthur Dayne, like the older brothers he never had. We never see his reaction to Elia's children dumped at the Iron Throne's feet, but we can guess based of the information we have.He killed the king to stop him from setting the entire city on fire, and would you *really* think in those rushed moments that your father would actually kill a woman (a princess no less) and her children who had nothing to do with any of the war?Well he did very much need to kill AerysOkay. That makes more sense.I am sure he was shocked but not shocked. Afterall, Tywin murdered ALL the Reynes and Yarbecks.  However, I doubt they had the discussion. Strangely, Tywin has discussed the matter. Many claim he does not respect Tyrion. I believe he does because Tyrion is the only person he discusses the matter with: 

> As stupid as he was, even he knew that Rhaegar's children had to die if his throne was ever to be secure. Yet he saw himself as a hero, and heroes do not kill children." His father shrugged. "I grant you, it was done too brutally. Elia need not have been harmed at all, that was sheer folly. By herself she was nothing.""Then why did the Mountain kill her? "Because I did not tell him to spare her. I doubt I mentioned her at all. I had more pressing concerns. Ned Stark's van was rushing south from the Trident, and I feared it might come to swords between us. And it was in Aerys to murder Jaime, with no more cause than spite. That was the thing I feared most. That, and what Jaime himself might do." He closed a fist. "Nor did I yet grasp what I had in Gregor Clegane, only that he was huge and terrible in battle. The rape . . . even you will not accuse me of giving that command, I would hope. Ser Amory was almost as bestial with Rhaenys. I asked him afterward why it had required half a hundred thrusts to kill a girl of . . . two? Three? He said she'd kicked him and would not stop screaming. If Lorch had half the wits the gods gave a turnip, he would have calmed her with a few sweet words and used a soft silk pillow." His mouth twisted in distaste. "The blood was in him."




Thus, Tywin did issue the orders but he never thought it would turn it into rape and butchery. However, there is no saying, "that was too much," afterwards. Just play it off as another occasion when demonstrated his ruthless will. Who's Azor Ahai. Personally I think its the trifecta of Bran Jon and Danaerys. The Dragon has three heads. Mance being Rhaegar.

Mance sending the catspaw to kill Bran.

Bloodraven being responsible for a lot of events.

Whether prophecies matter and are likely to come true.I'm pretty new here, but I've been reading a lot of theories on various forums and websites and the most heated one I've seen is the identity of Septa Lemore. So many people have so many theories that they are very attached to about her identity, that I've seen some real animosity when a conflicting theory is suggested. Also, anytime someone thinks that someone is a secret Targ.I don't think it's quite as big of a deal as it was when introduced, but the Bolt-On theory is panned as ridiculous by some and hailed as truth by others. Either way it's definitely one of the odder ideas out there.It seems that /u/PrestonJacobs is a controversial dude around these parts...

Whenever somebody posts his stuff, there's a lot of Rule 1 violations in the comments hahaThe Three Heads of the DragonSome people sure get pissed off about that lemon treeWhether Lyanna and Rhaegar were legally married, leading Jon to becoming "rightful" King of Westeros vs. He's a bastard either way you cut it and won't have any business to do in the South, let alone become King in the North. Aegon is a Blackfyre vs Aegon is a Targaryen is easily the most divisive Pretty much any female character. Disliking Sansa/Dany/Lyanna/Catelyn is a good way to get yourself labeled as a sexist. Whether or not Renly is right!!!Comet is a Volcryn.

Beat that.That Benjen is Coldhands when GRRM has stated that he is not.1. "X is a secret Targ"- see it most often with Tyrion but others as well.

2. The Cat sucks camp vs the Cat was just doing what any mother would do camp.

3. Bran is going to be the big bad vs Bran will be the hero 

4. Ned was an excellent fighter and would have stood up against the likes of Jaime vs Ned was an excellent leader and commander and a so-so fighterHonestly R+L=J. It might just be that those that don't believe are extremely vocal but there seem to be a lot more people who adamantly don't think it's possible than you'd expect. Same for Tyrion, and to a lesser extent Jaime and Cersei, being Aerys'D+D=T, of course. I really like the analysis in Preston Jacob's videos. The part where he lays down all the facts and details before making any inference from them. He reads the books *way* more carefully than I could ever hope to and notices things I wouldn't in a hundred years. 

Everything after the initial analysis, the conclusions he draws from those facts and details is straight horseshit.oh yea, that could go on and on like sport predictions and scenariosHow unreasonable that a rich man from Bravos would enjoy showing off his wealth by having a tree in his back yard that requires maintenance to sustain in the cities climate. something something unreliable narrator something something Bravos...The way Ive always seen it is that L+R=J doesn't mean as much as people think it does..

Bobby B was the rightful king by rite of combat, and Stannis has the strongest claim, imo.I remember when casually putting an "f" before "Aegon" was regular grounds for a flame war-"I don't like that woman."    
-["Thats because you're a girl"](https://youtu.be/vEj1aN_Rmj0?t=371)GRRM's contradictions have started to annoy the shit out of me. Particularly this most recent ordeal about Beric being The Lord of Light's version of a wight. He runs amok with ideas sometimes and doesn't think about the canonical implications of what he says. I'm not that far into the books. Can someone explain what coldhands is? Thanksbenjen is def coldhandsI like that Benjen is Coldhands... now if in the books Benjen turns out to have some other, meaningful fate then fine. But if he turns out to just be a loose end that never gets tied up or given a meaningful explanation beyond 'seeing Uncle Benjen as a zombie to make Jon feel sad' then I'd rather he be Coldhands.The show really complicates this. >2. The Cat sucks camp vs the Cat was just doing what any mother would do camp.

http://i.imgur.com/7QJw7Us.jpgWait people think Bran is going to be a villain? Why?I don't really think it's decisive that Ned could take Jamie in a fight. Maybe a couple people think that but I think most people (especially non-casual fans) agree Ned was not an upper echelon swordsman. >Ned was an excellent fighter and would have stood up against the likes of Jaime vs Ned was an excellent leader and commander and a so-so fighter

What book only evidence do we have of the former? Ned seems more like a commander than a warriorDany going mad vs Dany not going mad.

Aegon is a Targ vs Aegon is a Blackfyre vs Aegon is a random kid from Essos.

Edit: And for a time, weirdly enough, Euron=Daario.I mean the Ned was probably pretty good but Jaime is possibly top 5 all time swordsman. Top 10 at least. I don't really see where people can argue that. And this is coming from the Ned's biggest fanHonestly I'm just ready for one of them to get turned via Horn, gobbled via Kraken, or wighted; just to nip this speculation in the bud...Oh for sure. That doesn't stop people rushing out of the woodwork to passionately declare that Jon is the rightful heir to Westeros, his entire story is leading him to be King, Bran's going to make everyone listen, etc. etc. etc. I've been in way too many arguments in this sub from fanatic Jon fanboys over this. It's exhausting, really.What does the f mean?But I like *some* girls :/ The fire wight stuff is an incredibly old theory. It's just confirmation of what we knew already. He's a character that helps out Bran. But you don't really have much description to go off.

I think that Benjen = Daario.AgreedIn the show, during one of his visions of the past, Bran sees the "mad king" and I believe he simultaneously is whispering to himself (he thinks) about the need to burn the white walkers, to "burn them all".

This plus the Hodor thing and getting Ned to turn around by saying "father" at the Tower of Joy, implies that the mad king really did hear actual whispering, and that Bran was accidentally responsible for him wanting to burn people.

Likewise, the white walkers are able to get into the 3ER's crib because Bran has a handshake moment with the Night King during one of Bran's visions.  The same kind of magic protects the Wall that was protecting the 3ER's home.  So the implication is that Bran can accidentally defeat the Wall's magic by passing through it.

Then the actor who plays Bran also made comments about what kinds of problems Bran might cause.

Whether Bran constitutes a "villian" per se, I'm not sure, but it's possible he is (accidentally) behind many of the worst things to happen to the seven kingdoms.I've read some theories that--through no fault of his own--Bran may be being deliberately manipulated by the COTF and Bloodraven.  Blindly following their POV and opinions while lacking the entire knowledge of the bigger picture.  Agree that hes not, its on this sub alot more than you think though. on the other side jaime doesnt seem to have any credible commander experience as well and he is expected to lead the armies of the queen. 

With the passing of kevan and tyrion being on the other side there doesnt seem to be any established strategists on the lannister camp.No evidence. Im firmly in the Ned was not a great fighter camp. Just somethinf I see here often You're acting like Benjen isn't Daario I've always thought the very fact that Ned wasn't particularly special as a swordsman was actually important to one of the themes of the story.

GRRM spends page after page piercing old fantasy tropes and telling us that war is shit for everyone, and gives us a scene where the *greatest swordsman of all time* is defeated by no one special.  Yeah, there may have been some trickery involving a crannogman.  It isn't exactly clear what happened...just that being a legend in your own time doesn't save you from choking on your own blood because of a couple of upstart teenagers who you'd beat 9 times out of 10.  

If you make Ned a great swordsman in his own right, you lose some of what the death of Dayne is supposed to show.I agree too, but I swear every couple of weeks I see somebody saying Ned was top 10-20 swordsmen in the series.  Maybe he was and literally it was never mentioned by any character but I just dont see itTo be fair, that's not a particularly unlikely ending. It's actually what you'd expect from a fantasy story. It's basically feudalism fanfiction, where the natural order of things is restored as the rightful king seizes his place in the world. And it would also be some nice nerdy teenaged boy wish fulfillment as a teenaged boy that ~~gets bullied by his pe~~ is ostracized by the society he lives in for reasons outside of his control, but is ultimatly revealed to be ~~a beautiful swa~~ the rightful king and thus ends up being adored by all. Those two things would make it something that wouldn't be too surprising in the fantasy genre.

That said, one would hope that the series continues to take a more grounded and cynical approach to these themes. But it's not impossible that it'll take a major turn for the generic by the end, and I think that people that argue that it will have a very legitimate point.

I honestly hope that Jon get eaten by a Dragon.It means "fake." Writing "fAegon" or "(f)Aegon" when casually discussing Young Griff implies that it's fact/canon that he's not actually Aegon or a true Targaryen (Blackfyre descendant or pisswater prince), which is a theory that has not been confirmed. Everyone is Daario

I am Daarioi think this is a stretch but i'm willing to hear it out> So the implication is that Bran can accidentally defeat the Wall's magic by passing through it.  

Holy shit I never even thought of this. Dolorous Edd letting him through could be the entire undoing of The Wall!Jaime served against the Kingswood brotherhood, the Greyjoy Rebellion, and the beginning of the WO5K, as well as being taught by a decent commander in Tywin. I'm not saying he's a Stannis-level strategist, but the dude's got experience at least. He fought the Kings guard to rescue his sister.

If not for Howland Reed he may have died, even if it was 3 vs 7. Only two made it out.But how can Benjen be Daario AND Coldhands? in all those he was a soldier. Ive only ever seen him in command twice. Against Robb he lost his entire army and managed to get captured and in Riverrun he negotiated a surrender.he is a fookin' faceless man. You mean how does Euron=Benjen=Daario=Coldhands? 

Keep reading sweet summer child...Robb was truly a born leader who made costly mistakes, but almost none were on the battlefield. He understood the North, and he understood most of the houses under him - Nedd had clearly been grooming him to be Warden, and did a good job at it.

Jaime is/was good in a fight, but all of his leadership positions have been nothing but a formality, or him serving someone else's orders, or him making a play to make the house look good. He's not really capable at commanding an army.He's a time travelling fetus.The Kindly Man turns his face into a skull with a worm crawling in the socket. I think they can manage celebrity impersonations.They put on the skin of a corpse and it acts like a face. No way that is anything except magical. So why wouldn't being able to use the voice too be anything except that same magic. Just because he didn't choose to use the voice doesn't mean he couldn't have if he wanted to.The thing that bothered me the most is that Arya is most likely not the same height and build as Walder Frey, but I guess you could just pass that off as more Faceless men magic.Yes, Faceless Men change everything about their appearance and voice when they take on a new face. Obviously, mannerisms must be acted out by the assassin, but the magic allows complete disguise.i dont remember voices being mentioned but faceless men use magic powers not disguises to assume new identities. it would be silly to assume magic would be restricted to appearances.I thought Jaqen did change his voice at the end of Season 2.  It was subtle, but to me there was a clear enough difference between the voices. 
The fact that he didn't change his voice at the end of season 2 doesn't necessarily mean that he couldn't do it.I'm pretty sure the Kindly Man uses a completely different voice when he is hitting Blind Beth.  Arya literally has to warg a cat to figure out who it is.I think there has been a bit of merging with wearing faces and glamours in the show. They use magic to take the face and physical appearance of someone they've just killed, but you're hung up on them using their voice? Why would their magic allow them to do that, but not take their voice? just because it's a fantasy doesn't mean it can't be consistent. it's a huge thing to be left unexplainedHe's supposed to be on his own lands right? I personally think he's on a yoga retreat/greensear quest on the isle of faces. He sent Meera and Jojen to get Bran to Bloodraven, whilst he went to the isle of faces. He's made extended pilgrimages there before and I have a sneaky suspicion its a location that will be important to the end game. 

He's about to receive Lady Stoneheart/Robbs Will and Ned's bones in the books, when they go to the cragg, no? I think some revelations could be made there, as Robbs will legitimises Jon, we've been teased that there's no need for him to be legitimised as a Stark thanks to the show. Maybe Howland can reveal some details on the tower of joy?He hasn't left Greywater Watch since he got back from the Tower of Joy. Greywater WatchShouldn't he be convening with Jon in the North with the rest of the noble houses? I know in the books he's supposed to hold the Neck, so maybe he's doing that in the show too but the North just had a civil war and now has a new King. Feel like he should be around.Meera and Jojen are/were his emissaries. The Bran adventure squad has been beyond the Wall for a fat minute now, and are just now returning to the "North." So does Howland even know that his children aren't there to represent him? Also, if Jon needed Howland to present himself or call his banners, he would have done so.   > Shouldn't he be convening with Jon in the North with the rest of the noble houses?

Why does he need to go anywhere? If he's a greenseer then he should be able to do things remotely, and communicate with other people remotely. Better for him to stay somewhere safe.Meera just arrived at the Wall and Jon will presumably go there himself or send someone to get her and Bran. She may act on his behalf like she's always done. I guess. I just mean for the show, though. The audience doesn't know he's a greenseer.As a child, Cersei sometimes switched places with Jaime and took his fighting lessons. So Cersei must have some limited skill which is more than Dany has. My money is on Cersei.Probably Cersei because she's got the height and reach, and wouldn't have a problem fighting dirty. It's not a fair fight because once Dany gets mad Drogon is going to probably intervene. And then he obviously wins With a weapon, Dany. She's got some experience with a whip, and it's likely Barristan gave her some pointers on basic self defense, as would Daario or her Bloodriders.

Barehanded, Cersei. She's a lot bigger than 16 year old Dany, and weighs more. She could easily overpower her and beat her to death or choke her, plus she has an innate bloodlust.Cersei can just hold Dany's head while she wildly swings her fists.He wouldn't physically intervene, but Dany and him have a warg-like connection. Drogons rage could give Dany strengthGood points! I think Dany would have a decent shot with hand-to-hand combat, too, though. I agree Cersei has crazy and bloodlust on her side, but she's not been taking care of herself. She's been drinking too much, and in the books she out of shape (they even mention her dresses not fitting). Dany on the other hand is young, active and has always rode her own mount; which is now Drogon instead of her Silver. I'm thinking it takes a fair bit of core strength to successfully ride a dragon. I think Dany could hold her own. 


"sweet sister, when you play the game of thrones you must be able to reach the table"I dunno tho, Dany hasn't ridden in a while and Cersei being out of shape means she has more weight to throw around. 

Also if we assume both just teleported into our arena from their current location, Dany is starving and suffering from cholera, while Cersei lost some weight and her hair so Dany hasn't got a good handhold. Sweet half-sister, bastard born. But yeah, pretty much.Seven save us, that's too real for me. Dany would seriously just lay there violently shitting herself. :( Joanna Lannister is Benjen confirmed?Everyone talks about cleganebowl, but Seriously Ill, possibly miscarrying, half starved Dany VS Mid-Walk, starved, shaven, covered in feces and broken glass, mentally broken Cersei is the real ultimate battleDany could give Cersei cholera before she dies.  Poison is a woman's weapon. It's the mountain vs the viper 2.0Joanna banged Aerys, confirmed, because, well, it has been confirmed. That would mean that Cersei just declined to marry her long lost mother. The plot thickens. No, Sam did not relay the information to Jon, and no one would if they shared Sam's journey to the wall. Sam does encounter Bran at the wall in the books but the context is very different. A few days before he arrived at the wall, Sam led Gilly and her child to a wildling enclave after being chased by wights. Sam prays to a weirwood tree before the wights catch up to him and Gilly. Then, a legion of crows attack the wights and Coldhands (*not Benjen Stark*) appears and rescues Gilly, her child, and Sam. Coldhands then gave Sam a request to escort Bran from the Nightfort to him through a secret passage. 

After delivering Gilly and her child to the upper levels of the Nightfort, Sam takes Bran down a well and through a tunnel that leads to the secret gate. The gate is an animated weirwood face that responds to the Night Watch's vows. Sam says the vows and the weirwood face opens its mouth to allow Bran, Meera, Jojen, Hodor, and Summer through to Coldhands. While passing beneath the wall, a droplet of water falls into Bran's mouth and he tastes "seawater". 

Essentially, Bloodraven heard Sam's prayers and responded by sending Coldhands to save him and Gilly in hopes of having Sam deliver Bran to Coldhands. 

This story reveals quite a few things about GOT's lore. First, Bloodraven is omnipresent. Second, the Night's Watch is messed up for having access to secret underground animated weirwood gates. Third, the Wall is extracting seawater to keep its shape. I could be mistaken but isn't there like a talking magic gate that lets them pass or something? in the books Sam and Gilly encounter Coldhands north of the wall and he shows them to the gate and then waits outside the gate (since he cannot pass the wall); Sam meets Bran in the kitchen on his way out and Bran makes Sam promise him that he will never reveal that Bran is not dead to Jon, as he won’t ever allow Bran and company to travel beyond the wall. Sam agrees. After Sam takes the Bran entourage through the gate Coldhands leads them to meet Bloodraven.> Third, the Wall is extracting seawater to keep its shape.

More likely the wall is made of magically frozen saltwater, and the horn breaks the spells, melting it. It's a doomsday device since the Others apparently can't handle salt since they don't cross the ocean around the wall.Also isn't Jon gone for a fair bit of time before returning prior to the Wildling attack on Castle Black? It's likely that Sam thought he'd be far enough North to not matter or dead. Also isn't Jon gone for a fair bit of time before returning prior to the Wildling attack on Castle Black? It's likely that Sam thought he'd be far enough North to not matter or dead. Damn, that sucks. So Sam doesn't mention to Jon at any point in the future that he saw his brother?Even way after, when Jon has no chance of stopping him?Sam and Jon aren't together that long. 

Sam meets Jon near the very end of the third book and goes to Oldtown at the beginning of the fourth book so they don't share that much time together.This is a part of the book that drove me absolutely crazy. Yes, Sam did *promise* Bran that he'd never tell Jon. But Bran is a very young child going on what would seem like an absurb and stupidly dangerous journey to anyone who doesnt understand the visions. Jon is his Lord Commander and best friend and Sam actually thinks it's ok to not tell him that his little brother is still alive (Jon still thinks he was murdered by Theon) and in grave danger?? What the fuck Sam???That's what promises are about.I mean to be fair Coldhands is pretty much a crazy dark fantasy folk hero that also saved him and Gilly. If bran says he's gotta go he's gotta go and if anyone is gonna keep that boy safe it's a half giant, a giant wolf, and Coldhands. Also not only would learning that his brother is alive would only make it harder on Jon who is in Sam's head the best shot they have at a new LC.

Also gotta think about all the team building between Sam and Jon in book 1 separating themselves from their familiesI had no clue who the guy was until Reddit freaked out about it. Maise Williams is a huge fan so they gave him a bit part with her. I thought he did well.Every time I begin to have faith in humanity, I have an encounter with humans and lose faith again.

People freak out over the dumbest things.

The cameo was fine and did not negatively impact the episode.

Additionally, Symon Silver Tongue is not a show character, so it is perfectly conceivable to give this song to someone else, especially a Lannister soldier.
Shireen is singing one of Patchface's songs when we're introduced to her. Its just a nice way to put a nod to a book only event that they didn't have the time for. That's not a continuity error. They put in the song as a little reference though changed the writer, then a website payed someone to write a bad article that will get clicks because it's about GoT. It's a very ornate high quality steel sword with some bling bling. The runes being present is strange, they're First Men ancient markings. It's not a Targ sword, which would probably be made of VS and might have Valyrian glyphs, but not runes. Tywin probably bought it and had it fashioned with the rubies and skull. Rather generous for cheap ass Tywin actually. The sword is with Illyn as far as I know, and he's a dirty bastard in general, but keeps his sword clean as a whistle, so it's probably in top top shape and may resurface in the ever unpublished final two books, if ever they're published.>carved in the shape of a grinning skull. 
  
 would love to see it, that sounds pretty sickIt's Ilyn's new sword that Tywin bought him.

He gave up a Valyrian steel sword, he better get something of high quality in return, and Tywin has the money to do that.> I want to see Glendon Ball join the KG and get legitimized under Aegon V's rule

That wouldn't surprise me. He's definitely coming back in some capacity. I like to imagine Dunk leading a rag-tag Kingsguard of upjumped, disreputable knights including Glendon Flowers and Aerion's son Maegor. 

> "You know... I don't believe there's ever been a Duncan Targaryen." and Dunk just being speechless, and almost crying.

That would be pretty cute.

> How did Dunk come to eventually aparantly bang Lady Tarth and/or Lord Tarth's wife?

Smart bet there is that Dunk bangs one of Egg's sisters (who Maester Aemon recalls as having children in *Feast* but suspiciously have no noted marriages or children in the family tree in the World Book) who is then married off to the Lord of Tarth. The World Book tells us that the Tarths have a connection to the Targaryens but doesn't elaborate. 

> Did Bittersteel have any powers of his own?

Probably not. 

[If you're interested, I made a post last year where I laid out my hopes/predictions for future Dunk and Egg stories, complete with titles.](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/4v1x8r/spoilers_everything_future_dunk_and_egg_stories/)Desire: eventual publication; prediction: probably not.
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (Spoilers ACOK) thread.  This scope covers ONLY material from the books *A Game of Thrones* and *A Clash of Kings*.  Any discussion of the TV show or the later books in the series must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Extended), or (Spoilers Published).
 
 To create a spoiler tag, use this code:

 \[Spoilers Extended](/s "Things happen")

 to get this:

 [Spoilers Extended](/s "Things happen")   
 

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ZsY3lcDDtTdBWp1Gx6mfkdtZT6-Gk0kdTGeSC_Dj7WM/edit#gid=8


Above is the best time line analysis I have seen. It claims about six months.The way she adapts to the castle and learns it makes me tend to think that it was at most, in my enthusiast opinion, two months. Also keep in mind the amount of time it takes for the troops to move around, what with the castle changing hands makes me think it was a good length of time, yet not toooo longtime overall, idk. But I don't exact timeframe is that important. Yeah I was looking into Dragonbinder and I'm jumping to a conclusion here that it's one of those plot points that seems important in the books but has been cut in the shows because it's actually a red herring. 

So in the books it burns up on the inside the bloke who blew it. And the inscription on the horn says 'I am Dragonbinder... No mortal man should sound me and live... Blood for fire, fire for blood'. To me, this just screams that Dany will use it successfully at some point to control her dragons. She doesn't burn. She's no man. And the fire and blood part is a play on the Targaryen motto.

I'm curious as to how it will play out in the books. Maybe this is how all the houses of Valyria bound their dragons to serve or something? Maybe she loses control and needs to win it back?

But this plot thread might be overly complex for the show so they've just cut it altogether. I'm not adverse in that case, because it is a whole lot of pissing about blowing horns at each other with the ultimate outcome being that Dany still controls her dragons at the end. 

in the books Euron had dragonbinder already at this point (although he had given it to Vicatarion who had taken it with him to Slavers Bay and still had it in his posession when they arrived during the second siege of Meereen). 
However the show has never mentioned dragonbinder (or the Horn of Winter) and we've also never seen or heard of Victarion or a fleet of Iron Borne ships arriving during that second siege in the show. (Yaara and that fleet arrived after the Siege ended in the show). 

I personally doubt that they are going to suddenly introduce a magical horn with the power to bind dragons when they've never mentioned the horn at all at any point in the past 6 seasons. - I could certainly be wrong but it seems unlikely to me that the horn (or a dragon) would be the gift in the show; It's certainly possible but most people that only watch the show have no idea that this horn even exists.I'm a huge fan of the Horn's in the story (all three of them), and magic playing a larger role in general. I think the show botched Euron though, I don't see how he could possibly get Tyrion without facing off against the dragons... Sadly, I think he's just gonna bring them the Sand Snakes, maybe through that he will Win Cersei over and play a more Warlocky role later in this season and in season 8. I hope he asts a while and continues to develop, he really should've been able to have more fun.Has Dragonbinder been mentioned in the show? I think assuming that he meant a dragon would be a stretch, given the general lack of dragon eggs and dragon horns in the show with regards to Euron. Maybe it was just me, but I thought the gift he mentioned was him throwing in his loyalty to Cersei and mucking up Dany's fleet. Not sure though how they'll pitch it though, but given the non existence of Dragonbinder, I doubt that they will and hope that they won't try to make Euron rain a dragon.Was I the only one who immediately thought he's going to bring her Tyrion? Only after coming here after the episode did I see people thinking he's getting a dragon. Has dragonbinder been mentioned in the show?>Maybe this is how all the houses of Valyria bound their dragons to serve or something? Maybe she loses control and needs to win it back?

TWOIAF says this exactly what the Valyrians did. They enslaved everyone even their own dragons. 

I think Daenerys using it is out of character though since she'd essentially be enslaving her dragons to her will. That's more up Euron's department. No, dragonbinder has not been mentioned in the show. OP is combining tv and book-Euron.I agree with you, I don't think dragbonbinder was mentioned in the show. A lot of people here seem to really want show Euron to be like book Euron but I think his role is going to be totally different on the show.Yes, that's the plot. 

Generally in these kind of posts people like to expand on what has already been firmly established with their own ideas and insights. I've been thinking about it a lot, and I'm pretty sure dragons can use fireYes it is obvious, but the northern lords are not sending all their men to every castle on the wall so their best defense (the wall) is in danger.
The show would not make sense if they instead of defending the wall prepare to fight the white walkers on the battleground I'm working on a thesis that I think conclusively proves Daenarys is the long lost Targaryan daughter of Aerys. > The show would not make sense if they instead of defending the wall prepare to fight the white walkers on the battleground 

Jon has decreed that every man, woman, and child in the north will learn to fight. The Wildlings know how to fight, and they know what the army of the dead can do, so they've been sent to reinforce the Wall at Eastwatch by the Sea.Ok, and as the show had shown (and keep in mind it's only been one new episode) that they're sending more people to the wall, what with Tormund, and likely more to follow. Not sure what your point is though. You can't literally send everyone to the Wall to hold it, as it's only the Nights Watch that has literally seen the Others. Not only do I like Sandor as AA, I think to forge Lightbringer he might have to temper it's steel on Arya's blood. 
quotes for thought: 
GRRM: "I mean... Fire is love, fire is passion, fire is sexual ardor and all of these things. Ice is betrayal, ice is revenge, ice is… you know, that kind of cold inhumanity and all that stuff is being played out in the books."

Arya: "Tell them winter came for House Frey"Everyone loves the Houndand he IS a hero. Sorry to shoot you down, but who would his Nissa Nissa be? Unless he kills Sansa, Arya, or Gregor (idk man I was just thinking about all the people he's "close" to) I don't see him fulfilling that part of the prophecy, unless his "The Hound" persona is his Nissa Nissa. Idk. I really love the Hound and in the show I love how his role is expanding post-Brienne fight, but AA or LH? (TPtwP is a huge stretch and we can rule that out methinks) can't heroes and lovable heroes just be heroes and lovable characters? 

At some points I wonder if the phrase "not everyone is a secret Targ" can be expanded to theories of TPtwP, AA, and the LH. The Hound is a hero, however, a fantastic character, and *airhorn techno Cleganebowl hype For me the Hound would be the most poetical fit for Azor Ahai, besides Jaime (because It would be cool, if he finally becomes the hero).

The hound is so afraid of fire, that it would be ironically, if he had to swing a fire-sword.


Btw, do you know, that the name "Sandor" means "protector of men"?
The Hound goes North to fight the WW: this metaphorically kills Cleganebowl, which is more dear to our hearts than any Nissa Nissa could ever be. This will forge Lightbringer (at which point the Hound flips out at his sword being on fire). 

Realistically, I still would bet on Jon Snow being AA, or some lame "the real AA was teamwork"  while the Hound has a more grounded redemption arcOh wow 😳I totally agree and the biggest flaw to all of this (since this is a pretty old theory) is how GoT (the show, at least) has been moving more and more away from the possibility of Cleganebowl (I always thought Gregor would be his NN). 

Lately though (and maybe someone can confirm or deny this?) I have heard the powers of AA transfer from person to person with the killing of a dragon-blade (part of the old Hound as AA theory had him taking Oathbreaker from Brienne and killing Beric with it - who might be the current lord of light). 

I don't know where it would all connect (or even if it will) but Benioff and Weiss really did seem to emphasize Hound/Beric/Thoros, reasons for resurrection, the flames and the hounds ability to see in them, not to mention in the trailer, Beric did wield a Lightbringer (or a version of it like Stannis' but I believe it to be the real one).

Perhaps Beric and Thoros are believers in Sandor. Thoros spoke to Sandor as if knew Sandor would see something in the flames and Beric has been trying to recruit him repeatedly... maybe Beric's purpose (and the only reason he's being brought back so many times [which was a theme this past episode]) is because he is to make Sandor a believer.

This response is too long and I'm sure in the end it doesn't mean shit LOL but still. Fun to think about.Had no idea but you learn something new every day! What language is Sandor from? Also, Jamie as AA crossed my mind since He slays a lion and then his wife to forge Lightbringer... in this case, the lion and his loved one can both be Cersei.I see. I guess I have Jon as more of a Last Hero instead of AA because I see a lot of his allies as 12 Companion-type characters. Not to mention LH is specifically a northern story and the LH also lost his horse and his dog (Ghost?)Ya man, you've got the right of this. I really do want Cleganebowl tho. If you're willing to do spoilers production though you might want to consider some of the released pictures they've put out. As one such character looks big enough to be the Hound in a place sunny enough to be KL. I pray. I have already thought about the Jaime theory a few years ago and told a few people and they just laughed it off. I call that Game of Thrones is connected to Norse Mythology. GRRM is indeed adhering to the Ragnarök mythology, then Jaime is the only possible candidate for "Azor Ahai". He represents Tyr -- the one-handed god of war -- the champion of mankind, who in the earliest tellings of Ragnarök, prevail over Fenrir. Following the Ragnarök mythology, then Bran is almost certainly the warg ( monstrous wolf) Fenrir -- the Bound Wolf. His binding (paralyzation), comes at the hands (pun intended) of Tyr (Jaime), who loses a hand as a consequence of his actions (FYI: Tyr's hand was bitten off after binding Fenrir's legs with a magical chain -- which will supposedly restrain him until he breaks free at Ragnarök). Similarly, Bran is now bound, much like Fenrir, and is in contact with Bloodraven, who represents Loki -- Fenrir's father. So, that one's pretty easy to figure out. I think Jaime & Bran will square off again in the end, given the fact that it was their conflict that set the whole story in motion. I Will be delighted if this turns out to be true. One of the greatest story ever told.﻿

Edit: btw, in the trailer we see Jaime riding through a field of fire, smoke and salt water. Could this mean hes reborn beneath salt and smoke? You have the wheels in my head turning. That's what's awesome about GoT too. When I first started getting into the books, I heard GRRM used a few cultures to portray the people of Dorne, Westeros, Essos etc. So in your theory, could Jamie (being the Kingslayer as he is), slay Cersei (new mad king) and birth Lightbringer? Also, do you think he could wield such a sword with one hand?Btw, another hyped up character for the Azor Ahai prophecy is Jorah Mormont.

Reborn beneath salt and smoke:

He made the vow to Dany, when she gave birth to the dragons. During that moment the red comet passed. Born beneath smoke under a bleeding star.

He got his greyscale on a sea full of salt water. That makes up for the salt part. 


Azor ahai captured a lion: 

Jorah captured Tyrion Lannister


The prophecy also states, that Azor Ahai HAS the blood of the dragon, he doesnt have to BE a dragonblood:

This could apply to blood on a sword for example. A sword he uses to stab his only and true love Daenerys Targaryen (Nissa Nissa) a dragonblood.

George himself said, that prophecies shouldnt be easy to crack (Not Jon and Dany), but also not taken too literal.... so I got onto the Jorah hype^^

Also, I asked myself, why Jorah is still in the show? What purpose does he have? Maybe hes Azor Ahai reborn...  

Edit: source for the theory
[Jorah Mormont AA](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v)

The theory starts at 11:45Lets not forget Davos -  Salt of the earth,a Mannis's Man and Loyal through and through.

Dude was reborn by the Salt of the Ocean and Smoke of the Blackwater / Mel's Shadow baby.

Im sure Shireen and Lyanna Mormont will play a part in there...and something about his bonebag.

Wouldn't it be funny if all these people turn out to be some component of like a Azor Ahai corps?Ok, so no troll. I think the amount of power that we're seeing in women rn in the show is interesting and is perhaps *****somewhat**** historically accurate in post war times in the middleish ages. Idk just logically it makes sense, and forgive me my historical sources. But given times of great turmoil, civil war, and general warfare, women would end up with a good bit of political power in the aftermath, which is evidenced better in the books than the show, however. The show over exaggerates this I think. Look at Dany (whose character is riddled with problems), Cersei (which I think they've done relatively well, but Lena Heady is great so she carries), Sansa (who in the show has supposedly learned infinitely more than Alayne, yet is still stupid enough to not show a unified front), Ellaria (which can be forgives as part of the nonsensical Dornish plot *hur durr how do we avenge Oberyn? Oh yea by killing his family), and lastly Yara/Asha (who is stepping into book Vicky's shoes). There's just a lot of girl power going on rn. And I think it's good for some reasons yet bad for others, idk. 

Given more time I'd love to write an essay on the topic. I think there's a lot to be said for both the show and the books and how they handle this dilemma. But in short, the books do it better by humanizing the characters and showing that they have flaws. The show does it well, with the massive gaping flaw of Dany, whose plot armor is as thick as an the Wall and generally has everything go her way. 

Tl;dr I don't have an argument, but I'd like to. As yet it's just semi upset observations. I like stories and characters, but they've got to be logical.when those season three posters came out saying "All Men Must Die," we joked about it. 

Missandei will become the new commander of the Unsullied after Grey Worm dies from prostate cancer.Preston, our lord and saviourComing soon: Preston Jacobs S7E2 Marketing Photos Analysis, S7E2 Review Review, S7E1 DnD Interview ReactionsPreston's Season 7 S7E1 Previously on Game of Thrones Analysis 

Preston's Season 7 Game of Thrones Facebook Posts Analysis

Preston's Season 7 Why is this season ruined because it doesn't have foreshadowing of GOT being post-apocalyptic (SERIOUS)

Preston's Season 7 Ed Sheraan Twitter shutdown Review

Preston's Why my fake voices are as Annoying as the Sand Snakes (PART III)



I dunno but the POV character is fucked.

Perhaps it'll expand on this Maester conspiracy somehow?I think it will be as the Lannisters are marching Jeyne Westerling toward the Westerlands.

I believe that Jaime will offer Lady Stomeheart the chance to save Jeyne, her grandchild (she won't know Jaime is lying), and Tully soldiers, and he will lead the BWB in finding them.

I've heard a great theory that it will be told from Ser Illyn Payne's perspective, which would be very interesting because he can't talk, he has been around a long time and can provide an intriguing perspective on the Mad King and House Lannister.

It would be cool if Jaime has to fight Ser Illyn, since he's been swordfighting with the King's Justice in AFFC.If anything it will not be Riverrun where Jeyne is, but Casterly RockWell what are they going to do? Riot against the Mad Queen who blew up the sept full of her enemies and now commands both the gold cloacks and the lannister armies?I assumed everyone is calm because the Lannisters placed a strong garrison at the fortress of Dragonstone, which defends the mouth of Blackwater Bay and therefore puts a massive obstacle in the way of the advancing Targ forces. I doubt they know, but even if they do, god knows how used to violence that city is now. Poor bastards.The Lannister soldiers made it clear they hate being in KL and the whole place has gone to shit. Not to mention the panic that 10 city blocks literally exploding -taking out the central church and half of the royal family - would have causeThe dissemination of information in KL is very primitive. It's an uneducated populace and news is spread via the rumor mill, most likely in the local brothel or ale house. I laughed, good sir(?)I wouldn't be surprised if men were volunteering for the army precisely to get out of KLJon being KitN would require him to swear fealty in person, as both his heirs are presumed dead.

On that note, if Meera resurfaces and chills at winterfell, he'll probably go up to say hi.

Also, the reason he didn't go to pay respects to Ned is most likely because he has his bones at Greywater Watch, as they never got past The Neck.Ice spiders, nothing less. I always thought that the possibility of rising to the top of the realms largest religion might get him out of the Neck. But I hear wildfire usually puts people in the ground.I'm pretty sure he has well and truly left GW. 

That's in the books though, can't speak for the show. Huge fecking zombie army?The Great War is likely what will bring Howland Reed out of his self-imposed hiding.Finding out his daughter's back, probably.Poison is a woman's weaponThat was a guess, but it seemed logical. He guessed correctly.I think Smalljon is savvy to the kind of people the Boltons are.  It's not hard to think that Roose would be loathe to have Ramsey as his heir now that he has a trueborn son.  And it fits that Ramsey would kill his father to ensure his succession.  To come to these conclusions, I imagine all he would have to do is meet the Boltons once or twice.Poison isn't something normally used by westerosi, especially northmen. So it would have been suspicious. Plus Ramsey is Ramsey. So Jon make a damn good guessI get that he would be suspicious, but the way he said it in front of his face like it was common knowledge that Ramsay killed his father surprised me, I thought at first I had forgotten or missed a scene(?).I think part of it is Smalljon is a bit arrogant and confident, so he went out on a limb when he made that claim.  I think another part of it is what Nerevar1924 said his his post.  Perhaps the most important part, though, is he already had Rickon as a captive, so even if he was wrong about Ramsey, any insult to his "honor" (whatever twisted honor that is) would be mended by giving up Rickon as a gift. You don't understand. The writers have decided that Sansa is smart. They don't know how to actually write her smart, so they have to cut corners here and there. Because Sansa is smart, Jon can't turn to her and say he will give the Dreadfort away to loyal northerners / little finger / whoever, because that would make Sansa's whole complaint meaningless rendering Sansa dumb. But, recall that Sansa is smart, so everyone else has to forget the Dreadfort exists.I was hoping that Tormund might be given a thousand acres and a holdfast.Yeah I was almost shocked that wasn't mentioned, Jon could have easily given it to a Loyal bannerman rather than slighting Sansa and sowing discord in his own House. 

But then again that's probably exactly why it wasn't mentioned by D&D; easier to manufacture drama and raise the tension that way.

Really a shame too, I would've killed to get to see the characters reaction to the infamous Dreadfort basement.Give it to the Vale.The Boltons nearest relative would be Sansa 

They should give the dreadfort to one of the noble houses of the Vale. they will get more support from the vale without asking any favours from peter baelish

But anyways they dont want to talk about the dreadfort in the show :D
Sansa is Lady of Winterfell, that why she sits with Jon. As far as we know, Sansa has the best claim on the Dreadfort. I doubt the show will ever address the Deadfort. As far as they're concerned, the Boltons are dead and gone, and don't need to be rehashed for any reason. I think, in the whole scheme of things, it's more important to man the wall.

If he survives that then maybe he and his Wildlings will be given more land and, possibly, the dreadfort - the bad atmosphere won't bother them too much.your name will disappear, your house will disappear.
maybe they'll just leave it abandoned, or give it to wildlings.Your instinct is right. While I'd love to point you to a specific theory, the notion that Greyscale can be used against the WW has been mentioned before, while I don't put much stock in it, I don't doubt that biological weapons are as effective in Westeros as they are in our world. But I've always wondered whether the disease can affect the WW as it does humans. I. The books, I think Patchface and maybe Val might have more to say about the nature of Greyscale.He already had "near full blown greyscale," his whole forearm was covered in it last season, like stone. 

But when you see it this season it is all cracked and pink and tender, even crispy in places. 

They have already begun treating it because that is not how greyscale is supposed to look. It looks to me like it's been treated with fire. 

Not much else to it. I think it's all a plot contrivance to get him to Sam. They'll need to work together on something, but this theory seems unlikely. Weaponized forearms are best left to Hellboy.

Don't forget why Jorah was hanging out with Dany in the first place. He was exiled from Westeros by Eddard for selling slaves. That cell might be doubling as a jail cell. It could lead to Escape from Oldtown.I think it's just one way they figured out to have information passed from one group to another and a convenient place to do so (and get healed)I think his plot is pretty much pointless. If Sam doesn't learn anything else after last episode, his plot at Citadel is also pretty pointless because he even knew about the dragonglass at DS anyway. They might be burning through some screentime there with those two.I don't think his presence has anything to do with the White Walkers.

1. He came there to get cured.
2. Sam tells us the Maesters don't believe the White Walkers exist.Biological warfare is used quite a bit. The Yunkai fling diseased corpses into meereen.IMO It could if the Others weren't a thing as it doesn't really make sense [to me] for them to just sit around doing nothing for five years after everything that they've done so far, fist of the first men attack, attacking Tormund's group on their way south and of course Hardhome etc.  This is something i always wondered about the first 5 year gap too. Is how he could explain it then too. Granted it is a little harder now since like you said hardhome and tormunds group attack has happened now. Well before it was only fist and mance's parties getting small raids.

Only decent explanation i could give is maybe the spell that takes down the wall is super taxing and takes a long time to perform. So maybe they are just trying to herd off the humans before they reach such a vulnerable point and could generate their mana safely.

I dont think jon and co are dumb enough to go north and start a fight when like they hope they can just fight from the wall.

Edit: it would be cool if part 2 starts with an edd pov or an other pov of the wall falling. The 2nd part starting like that then you would know that shit is about to go down8/10 would wear my tinfoil hatKeeps Lord Bolton from reading your thoughts, good planWatPlease be more specific.Just pointing out another overlap of something we've heard in their old stories and what is happening in their present.Its just a fun small but extreme theory. The old story was that their entire planet was in the eye of a blue eyed giant. In this episode, we see our first case of an actual blue eyed giant. Coincidence? Wights eyes are blue, and that was the army of the dead. I remember that moment.  I think the eye was discolored because it was a wight.Right, I know that. But theres magic in this universe so who knows what they could do with thatNo, the giant's eye was discoloured because Bran was looking through it to find out where the Army of the Dead was heading.

The scene went from the giant to Bran, whose eyes were white - which is what happens when he'll looking elsewhere.As everyone says, yea you're wrong, but yea I agree and I think it's weird, but hey we're not feudal so I don't expect our instincts to be right. But you're right it's literally unwatchable.Bear in mind that GRRM doesn't solely draw on medieval British traditions for this all. I don't think it's ever been common in Scandinavia or Spain for a woman to take her husband's surname, and France seems to have gone back and forth on the matter across the centuries. 

It does also seem like Westerosi surnames aren't necessarily the same sort of binding legal identification that we have today. No one in universe would get particularly confused between Catelyn Tully and Catelyn Stark, because everyone knows they're the same person. Her father's name and her husband's name are interchangeable, and it seems like more of a matter of personal preference as to which one is used more often.

With that said, there can be reasons behind said personal preference. Donella Hornwood and Barbrey Dustin might have both kept their husbands' names because that added legitimacy to them leading their Houses as widows. Maege Mormont kept her father's name and passed it on to her own daughters for the same reason. Cersei could well have chosen to call herself Lannister because who is going to stop her? The Baratheon line is extinct, so why should she care about honouring it anymore?Stealing this from the user /u/CamdenCade, who posted this comment on /r/gameofthrones, as he explained the situation regarding people marrying to the monarch quite well. Kudos to you, my man. 
___

*"Okay, so this was a question brought up a while ago on r/asoiaf.*

*Basically, the royal dynasty's name is not something that can be gained or lost through marriage. It acts as a title. In this sense, any consort to the royal house will retain their maiden name. Cersei is still called Lannister because she is a consort, which is why Elia was still called Martell rather than Targaryen. Margaery is still legally a Tyrell. The only way to hold the royal dynasty's name is to born into it, i.e., Joffrey Baratheon, Myrcella Baratheon, Aegon Targaryen.*

*A royal consort may never legally adopt the name of their royal spouse. This differs in noble houses where women who marry into other houses automatically take their husband's name; such as Lysa Arryn and Catelyn Stark. It becomes even trickier when, in the books, some people refer to these two as Tully's- which is more force of habit than anything else.*

*TLDR; the surname of the royal house is a title that can't be given through marriage. Cersei, as all Queen consorts, legally retains her maiden name while her children take the royal name."*
Lannister is correct. As Baratheon is a royal name she didn't become a Baratheon when marrying Robert. The same way Elia was still a Martell.Word, good reply. I still think the sigil should have been the Baratheon sigil though.Yeah, I'm the first to criticize but Lannister is right.Alright, that's fair. But that also means that since in the show her kids are dead she has no claim on the throne (while Stannis was alive). Assuming they were still alive and she was the queen reagent, wouldn't the sigil on the note delivered by raven still be the Baratheon sigil?She made a coup and installed a new dinasty of the Lannisters. She even says so when talking to Jaime.She seized the throne. All the other power players died, and she took the throne and there was no one strong enough to say "no". And if there was, Gregor could've just taken his head off.dinasty, nice.Wouldn't ingesting ground up obsidian be like swallowing thousands of tiny glass knives?Eagle eyes also saw a reference to using dragonglass for medicinal purposes.I read from other sources that the book Sam was reading in the episode referenced small amounts being okay to ingest and aiding illnesses.That priest could also have told them the meaning of christianity: not seeking vengeance, not seeking earthly power and wealth, trying to sway evil people unto good instead of hating them,... That dichotomy between the two prayers is false. Who cares about prayerw anyway? A sensible moralistic story is the best prayer.Well written. 
But hey, does anyone know the actual "real" verson of The Faith's prayers? I've been searching for them but haven't been able to find The Maiden's or The Smith's. And do they have one for The Stranger?He was trying to remember the 'blessing' the guy said when he served dinner all those seasons ago. Apparently his (The Hound's) family didn't say grace before dinner, or he'd know the words.Just so.This is a very well-written post. I have to give Benioff and Weiss a lot of credit for the writing of the Hound's scenes in episode 1.I greatly enjoyed this. Thanks for sharing! I got a pang of emotion when Sandor said "I'm sorry you're dead." From any other character it wouldn't really have mean't much but from Sandor it was like a break through. He's known many great men, killed many people, and seen more still perish. "I'm sorry you're dead." He didn't say it to Ned Stark, Robert Baratheon, or any of the great knights he's known. He says it to two peasants who's names he doesn't even know.> That priest could also have told them the meaning of christianity: not seeking vengeance, not seeking earthly power and wealth, trying to sway evil people unto good instead of hating them,... That dichotomy between the two prayers is false.

He could have. :) But you've missed the point of the story.May the Maiden warm me bed, May the Smith forge my steel, May the Stranger stop fucking me in the ass please.That by itself is so sad. Now, plenty of families aren't religious, but when you consider who Sandor's brother is and everything else, it creates a very sad picture. It's just nice to see someone not be numb. Arya is numb to all the horrors around her, Cersei appears numb, Sansa is numb, and probably dozens of others if I think hard enough.

But Sandor can't make himself numb to these two people.I agree he is clearly affected by their deaths, it also shows that he has actually changed and become someone other than The Hound. Even last season he was still The Hound, seeking blood. What if Sandor has also been resurrected by the red god just like Beric? Last season didn't the septon say that he thought Sandor was dead and they were ready to dig his grave when he started showing life and then he mentions that maybe the gods aren't done with him. There could be a connection there. Someone mentioned this in another thread, and I can't get it out of my head.  It probably doesn't work in book terms, but it would be such a compelling moment.  

The two of them sitting up at night, the rest of the band asleep.

Beric "Why did he bring me back, Clegane?  I have no idea.  I could ask you the same."

Sandor "What are you on about?"

Beric, "Tell me, are you sleeping well?  I notice these men sleep.  But never you and I.  Are you hungry, Clegane?  You don't seem to take food much these days.  Can you even remember hunger?  I try, but I can't recall it.  Tell me, what do you remember of coming to be with those people building that little sept where we found you?  Do you remember how you ended up there?"

Sandor "Shut your rotting cunt mouth, I don't like the smell."

Beric, "You really don't remember, do you?"ChillingI really like book Stannis, show Stannis not so much, so I kind of feel bad for saying this but show Stannis should be on top of that list.

Robert was a great father, to his kids. Sadly Cersei refused to have them, and he probably knew the rest weren't his. He's not the smartest, but if his dozen bastards are all black haired but his children with his wife he's only had sex with a handful of times aren't, he can probably put two and two together.

Jaime was a father, but not a dad. The kids were his by blood, but he at best was uncle Jaime, and spoke to them as a servant, not a parent or even friend.

Balon gave up on Theon after he was taken hostage, but he was pretty good to Asha, and even intended her as heir.

Tywin was insecure and had a bad relationship with his own father, plus his human side died with Joanna, and her death was also caused by the son who was not only most alike him, but also a drunk, a whoremonger, and an abomination.

Aerys, Roose and Randyll are all dickheads, although Randyll was fairly nice to Dickon, and Roose seemed to care at least somewhat for Domeric, although he only knew him for 10 years or so.Pretty sure there are more terrible fathers in real life. I wonder if some of those guys seem like terrible fathers just because we are on the outside looking in. Are they really as bad at being fathers as they seem? Are we comparing them to what we consider a good father now? Or to Ned only, a man who took an active role in the raising of his children, or should we compare them to other Lords (ones that are neglectful as a parent and that regularly send their children away, either to be wards or to make a marriage)?

Robert was absent in the raising of his children, granted, but I wouldn't say that made him terrible. He was King, and had lots of other responsibilities (like drinking, whoring, and going into debt). Did any of his children (the ones he at least claimed as his own) suffer directly because he acted as their father? Yes, I am aware some of his bastards were killed on Cersei's orders, but I don't blame Robert for that (one might argue he shouldn't have fathered bastards to begin with, but I digress). 


Jaime couldn't be a father for obvious reasons. He was in the delivery room though, something that was rare for the time, so props to him. 


Balon had his older sons killed in the rebellion and had to give Theon up as a ward, so he was left to stew. By how sane Asha seems to be (besides letting Theon feel her up), I would say most kids on the Iron Islands are kind of left to their own devices. What makes Balon worse than any other father on Pyke?


Tywin is cold and downright cruel to Tyrion, but Tyrion himself says that had he not been born a Lannister he would have most likely been left in the woods. I get the sense that Tywin only showed true affection for his wife, and once she died so did his heart. Cersei seems to try her best to emulate Tywin and Jaime had respect for the man. 


Aerys was an insane man, one who got worse after his ordeal in Duskendale. Yes, he thought Rhaegar was plotting with his Hand to overthrow him, but I would argue that Aerys placed more of that blame on Tywin than his own son. Viserys was little and Dany wasn't born, so who knows how he treated them. Probably with the same absentee paranoia with which he treated his wife. Mental illness played a large role in his treatment of all those around him.


Roose might be the only true terrible father in that list because he honestly doesn't care about his heirs. He is cold and calculating. While it isn't shown directly, I can safely bet he didn't cry when Domeric died. I doubt he would do the same if Ramsay dies. The future of House Bolton rests on his shoulders and another baby can easily be had. 


Randyll is a man like Tywin. He played favorites with his children. While Sam has reasons to vote his father as Worst Ever, his younger brother Dickon probably thinks he's awesome. 


TL;DR: these guys have all done dick things, but that doesn't necessarily make them bad fathers (especially for the time).For the same reason there are so many shitty people in the series. This sounds weird, but roose wasn't that bad of a father at all...in the show he gave his bastard legitamacy, made him heir, and made a deal to get him the daughter of the most prominent northern house.  It was all for his own selfish motives in the end, but he saw his bastard for the psychopath he was and instead of condemning him, he used it to his advantage, it's not father of the year shit, but he certainly has done more for his bastard than a few guys on that list did for their trueborn children.Those guys are just shitty people in general. (Jamie got better)Because art imitates life. 😭😭😭\> *Dany*

\> *morality*

\> *fear of hurting innocents*
___
Hahaha!>"What is Cersei without her children? What prevents her from being a monster? And the answer is nothing."   
  
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (No Spoilers) thread.  This scope covers NO story elements of ASOIAF or "Game of Thrones" per [Rule 3.3](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules).  Any discussion of the story of the books or the show must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Main) or (Spoilers Published).

Threads about r/asoiaf (meta topics) will be removed at moderator discretion.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Good tasteYour theory made me think of another one. If we are going with the rule of three (three heads of the dragon, third child of Rhaegar is PTWP, three times to forge Lightbringer, etc). Each one of the key figures are technically the third child of their parents. Snow is Rhaegars third kid, Daenerys is Aerys third, Tyrion is the third Lannaster child, and Bran is the third Stark child. If cersei would be a aerys child he would let her marry his son. Targaryen bloodpoolArya is the third Stark kid, not Bran:)Cersei would still be a bastard, and not made between 2 Targaryens. We also know Aerys enjoyed being superior to Tywin. Seeing how Tywin raised the twins, and denying the marriage would just be the cherry on the cake for him.Fuck me! You are right Also how would he know for sure they she's his daughter anyway? The whole realm believes they're Twyins offspring. Sure he banged her and all, but could he really prove it? It was funny. Just dragged on a bit too long. Could've easily used that time elsewhere in a shortened season. Given how much poop there is in the books, the scene was very true to the source material.yeah, the 15-20 seconds they really wasted, lol people in this sub need to get over themselvesI know it was less than a minute but it did seem like it took a whileThey'll probably show up in the third episode. The Queen's Justice. Cersei is the Queen and I believe the 'Justice' in the title will refer to justice for her daughter's murderers.Cersei is fucking hilarious.

I cried of laughter when she called Olenna an old cunt.Tyrion knew Ellaria from her time in King's Landing. She was there with Oberyn.Am I the only one who is getting the impression the actresses/characters are being punished/scapegoated for the writers's mistakes? Tyrion was the one who sent Myrcella to Dorne. He may feel partly responsible.Tyrion would also feel personally responsible, because it was his idea to send Myrcella to Dorne. It was the one place in Westeros he thought she'd be the safest. 

But the game must be played. Tyrion is sworn to Dany, so he'll have to put aside personal grievances for the good of the alliance. Like how Jon is going to have to tolerate Theon so he can bargain with Dany for Dragonstone's dragonglass. We've got a lot of interesting conversations that I hope happen next episode between members of Dany's entourage and herself, too.

Dany and Varys, for instance. Last we heard her speak of him (at least I *think* it was the last time) she was complaining about the fact he oversaw the attempts to assassinate her. This was before he started 'serving' her, IIRC.

Or, like you say, Tyrion, Ellaria and her *brood o' sneks*. Remember that the Snakes murdered Myrcella, who is Tyrion's niece. I wonder if this will ever be brought up.Tyrion probably doesn't know about the deaths of tommen or mycella. When he does find out though, he'll probably hate Cersei that much more for it, and I can't imagine he'd forgive the sand snakesI wonder if Varys would lie to him about how Myrcella died in order to preserve order in Dany's ranks.I don't know about that. If their is one thing that gets Jon angry is people hurting his family.I think when Dany learn about the deeds of the Snakes and Theon, she would start to think about in what allies are worth of keeping in her side and others which get the boot or are food for her dragons and hopefully Jon too, If the mad king and the ancients starks razed the house of bolton and lannister long ago, many wars and conflict could had been evaded Also looking for a resolution to the fact that Olenna Tyrell helped frame Tyrion in Joffrey's murder and they're supposed to be allies now.

I have high hopes for Tyrion moving forward (after a lousy season 6 arc). I'm sure it will be if Ellaria and Tyrion share a scenehe's at least a little to blame for sending her there...Surely he knows about the death of King Tommen, of all people. He drinks and he knows things.I still hope he finds out where whores go.Dorne was safe for her until season 4, when Tyrion lost all of his power.   He probably knows but he doesn't know the circumstances Dorne was safe until D&D decided the Dorne storyline was no longer important then killed off Prince Doran (and his family) without any logical sense.  Mycella died for plot convenience. Why does anyone want Quentyn back anyway? He was a bland character who came on the scene too late and who's purpose in the story was to die. Can we please move on from this?This doesn't prove anything. This shows him in front of the dragons, holding a torch. If it showed him getting roasted then it might be worth something But-but-the melting point of leather vis-a-vis dragonflame! Martin's clearly couched this twist in elaborate scientific principles that literally no one has considered before! The ASOIAF calander for 2018 contains artwork of Quentyn's, until now, unconfirmed death. This seems to be the final nail in the coffin for the theories on Quentyn surviving. Inb4 fAegon is the exact same thing.'Death by fire'? Wait, do people say that Quentyn can't be dead because his clothes didn't melt?Obviously the mighty GURM has rewrote the laws of physics, he wouldn't throw a useless Dornishman into the story for no reason!!It was confirmed for all but people who want the series to be a bunch of ridiculous twists. Quentyn is wannabe Aegon just like Victarion is wannabe Euron

Hence Quentyn and Victarion are going die like losers and Euron and Aegon are going to be real threats and menacing Ok, I didn't see that extra part. SorryYou wouldn't believe the hoops people jump through for that one. The temperature at which leather burns is only one of the silly rationalizations I've read for Quentyn still being alive. People can't deal with the fact that not everything in this books is pure plot engine. Some stuff is just there for thematic resonanace. 

Although Quentyn will definitely end up being important plotwise once word of his death reaches Dorne.Everyone seems to forget that Dragons breather magical fire. It isn't a candle flame coming out their mouths. It's magic.It's kinda like the Tyrion is a targ thing I guess. People miss the deeper meaning (Tyrion is Tywin's truest son, There are no heroes) and just assume there isn't one and make their own We  have a winner. Tinfoil award!OMG.  I just realized it!

THEY. WERE. ALL. CLONES.

Lyanna, Robert, Dany, Tywin, Brynden, Aerys, Rhaegar, Robb, Frey, and Frey, and Frey....

It's clones all the way down.  > Cersei has been acting irrationally

Because she was such a paragon of rationality beforehandI'm gonna bet on paranoia/heavy drinking. What if the Queen at Robert Baratheon's side was the evil clone, and Qyburn freed the real Cersei and restored her to her rightful place?  That could have happened.So it takes only a few weeks for a clone to grow to around 40 years old? There's no evidence. She's become unhinged since the death of her children and Tywin. That's all.> An explanation could be that Qyburn has imprisoned real Cersei and made an evil clone.

I have never read anything more confirmed in my entire life.I think the real answer is bad writing. Same thing has happened with Sansa.If he used a ysalamiri then he could have done it in that time period It makes perfect sense. plus the clone would be younger and it might have been more beautiful because it wasn't affected by Cerseis alcoholism. So Dany and Margery were both red herrings.I get it! Speaking of... Aeron reminds me a lot of Jorus C'Baoth.Right Jaime should have just gotten a robot hand then he could still fight too.... and a clone would technically be a genetic sibling to Cersei, or "little sister".  Clone Valonquar choked Cersei to death: CONFIRMED!> Clone Valonquar choked Cersei to death: CONFIRMED!

Mind. Blown.OK, just gonna comment on this "Cersei plays the game so well" thingy.

She is NOT playing the game so well. She just doing one fuck up after another and she just postponing the inevitable.It's the show. She will teach dothraki and iron born to sow. That's why she's practising speeches. A bad time to put this on this sub. This sub is flooded with Dany worshippers now. You can't even talk about Emilia Clarke's acting nowShow only fans love her, book readers hate her and the people in the middle are split.

I think it's easy to like her for some people because she looks like the favorite to win. For others(including myself) we can't get behind her for that same reason. In the books truly anything can happen and in the show not so much, so we don't want a power house candidate whose only claim is to a dynasty that has been overthrown. 

In the show she is a literal walking political agenda(Young stranded girl who is handed nukes, superpowers, armies, a fleet, and the most expierenced counsel) whose only tests thus far have seem to be pre rigged in her favor.

Finally Emilia Clarke the actress doesn't help, but that's another beast entirely."Cersei plays the game so well"

Motherfucking OP do you watch this show that you just spend so long talking about? Who wouldn't want 3 dragons to help them conquer a kingdom.. if Dany didn't have dragons I don't think I would care about her as much.. I really need a re-read of affc and adwd all I can think is how boring her story is without dragons.Sounds like you're judging her actions like you are a character in the book, and not a reader of a fantasy novel.

As a plot point, yes, what she brings is pretty horrible, but I'm not sure what you can do otherwise. It's kinda hard to fit a story with the scenarios you projected inverted. Will she be able to take Westeros without the Dothraki? Can she reform Astapor with the tight "Imma march to Westeros" schedule? Of course, the "ideal" answer is that she should just stay an exiled princess with no ambitions and let the happy world keep on turning, but then there's no story, Joffrey is still a cunt, and slavery is still there. 

Then we go into relativism, especially because in-universe, Dany is framed by the slaves themselves as a liberator, not a imperialist. Maybe you are looking at it with a modern lens. By all means, Dany's Meereen struggles may be a commentary on "American Imperialism", but that comparison shouldn't flow both ways. (That being "American Imperialism" and however you feel about it shouldn't be applied to whatever Dany's doing.)

As to why I like her:

I like her because she's a fleshed-out character with understandable struggles and she actively uses her agency to (try to) solve them.

She has a distinct personality: She's idealistic, charismatic, cunning and confident, but she's also stubborn, self-entitled, reckless, and sometimes not self-aware. 

She has character development: she makes mistakes, but she actively tries to correct them when she becomes aware of them, sometimes succeeding, sometimes failing, and sometimes a compromise. S1 Dany starts out weak, S3 Dany develops a concept of what is "strong", S5 Dany realizes the weakness of her "strong-ness" and instead tries to be "pragmatic". I think S6 Dany's culmination is during S6E9, when she learns the value of "delegation"; she can't do everything, but she knows that now, so she gives it to someone who can do what she can't.

Finally, she's relevant to the story without it automatically be wrapped around her. The world only appropriately starts wrapping around her when she disrupted and threatens a collapse of a whole system. Her being aware of her role in the disruption was the whole reason why she decided to rule in the first place (in the books). Before then, she's a nobody with a random circus trait, basically; popular, but of little importance in-universe.

I think she's strong female character because she's actively seeking agency, but she also (albeit slowly) learning the responsibility behind that agency. But that's not why I like her. I like her because her development and interaction, though subtle and not always for the better, makes me invested in her story.

(I also like Sansa, Jon, Tyrion and Melisandre *gasp* in that similar vein)

As to the others:

Yara is a bit one-dimensional for me, but that may be because she's in too little episodes and most of those episodes is character exposition instead of development. She's kinda the stereotypical "I'm a female that defies female gender roles" strong female. In the books, she also has a very diminished role.

Arya is an amazing tragic villain, and her story follows her character losing herself until she realizes that all she wants is to go home. Hopefully it's not too late. 

Cersei is great because she's a female character who continually tries to be "strong", first by being a puppeteer, then by being a woman who would rather be a man; but she's failing when it comes to results and it is driving her mad. The implication is that what she thinks makes someone strong isn't really it, so no matter how hard she tries, she's can't do it.


~~~
Edits: grammar.People like Dany cause of her deep inner emotional conflicts and how she overcomes them and bends the world to her in divine ways along her hero's journey. They dislike Dany because, if you don't pull off that story just right, it comes across as an ass-pull or easy unearned victories. Also, Show Dany sucks in some ways because there is essentially no real inner conflict, leading her miracles to become Mary Sues. 

My favorite part of Dany's arc is her Jorah Dragon Hallucinations out on the Dothraki Sea. "Remember who you are". Fire and Blood. I love that scene because I think that's a good thing. Fuck peace. Some things are worth killing for, worth fighting for, worth massacring for. There is more to life than morals. Narratively, that's a good thing and I stand by that idea. Dany's "peace" was a terrible thing. Other people, who still go by a limp wristed peace route, think that narratively, Dany's Fire and Blood moment is meant to be a bad thing, that somehow a peace where you give everything is a peace still worth things. Blood, violence, and conquering runs in her veins. And I like that. Some people don't. That's probably the division in Book Dany. Also, her actions as ruler will change and grow as she learns over time. 

Show Dany, on the other hand, removes all of that nuance and most importantly inner conflict. So Show Dany is badass, but very Mary Sue sometimes, although not nearly as bad as someone like Brienne or Ramsay.

This isn't about "strong female characters". That term is hot garbage and should be replaced with well-written female characters. The whole gender SJW aspect is almost everything wrong with Show Dany, including why she's a hollow paper bag character without deep inner conflict that makes Book Dany so interesting.Westeros for the westerosi I say! Keep em out! "Everytime she has an issue, she lights it on fire. I wonder how that will work in Westeros..."

Well, probably pretty good when she runs up against the army of the dead, but maybe not for the rest of her problems.People don't really like Dany that much as a character. It's just that she is literally a divine person and she has the strongest weapons in the world. It's in the same way America has a shit ton of allies but it's not like everyone likes them. You just have to respect their power.Not everyone does. I think most show only watchers like Daenerys, but it is pretty split among book readers. I for one don't like her for a few reasons mainly due to her self entitlement, war crimes etc..Grrl Power"Slavery is barbaric!  I'm going to my homeland of Westeros were we have the feudal system which is in no way like slavery at all."    

That being said I do love Dany, I just ignore all the little random history parallels that come to my head telling me she's fucking shit up.I don't! She has no claim to the Iron Throne. Jon Snow is one true King of the Seven Kingdoms.I honestly see the opposite on this Reddit. I dunno where all the negativity comes from. It's a few thing I have pointed out before, but I can collect them all here I guess.  

1. Many of her critics are serious Stannis fans. This never made sense to me because their sense of justice, while old-school, is very similar to one another's. On the other hand, Stannis has even worse entitlement issues than her. Think about it, she grew up hearing her father was betrayed and deposed, so of course she wants to set that right. When she is finally told that he was cray she accepts that, and doesn't discredit it. Which ties into a later point of her adaptability.  

2. They think everything has been easy for her. Not entirely. Her brother was a total asshat and we don't even know the full extent of her life before he, you know, sells her off for an army. She finally has some clout and can stand up for herself after that though. Then her husband and her unborn baby die, and she takes a chance with her dragon eggs. Happy ending? Not really, her army is gone and everyone is about to starve and die from water loss. Next is Qarth, where the warlocks steal her dragons and she only gets them back because she's not an idiot. She frees the Unsullied, and has to watch the cities she saved collapse back into their pre-existing messes. Not because she's an evil, selfish girl, but maybe because *she is new to ruling*. 
But then she learns. Which ties into my next point.  

3. They think Mereen is boring. Granted, Mereen is politics. But that's the point. It's where she tries to actually rule. She sees how fragile the system is (from formerly freed cities) and decides to put her dream on hold to figure it out. We all moan that it takes her so long; how the hell is she supposed to feel? She's the one living it. But she wants to do it right.  

4. She is stubborn. Slightly yes. But she re-opened the slave pits, which she was very much against, lets the noble families bury their dead (even marries one of them) and trusts her advisers that lived in Westeros that maybe things aren't as she's been taught. Which is no small matter. Another Dany bashing thread how original. Also it's interesting how Dany gets criticized for having the Dothraki but Jon never gets criticized for the Wildlings who literally have cannibals among them.

Ohhh wait the Dothraki are brown and are therefore mindless savages, and the Wildlings are white and have that hilarious Tormund(who killed innocent women and children but we'll ignore that because we like shipping him with Brienne).


edit: Going to address this once and I don't really give a shit how much I get downvoted for it. Dany and Jon's stories are parallel. Especially in the books. Both are away from the action in King's Landing, both are in remote places, and both are associated with groups Westeros would deem savages.

Yet even though they have so many similarities Dany gets repeatedly shitted on by the geniuses of this board. And one of the main reasons is the Dothraki. And if you don't think there's a racial double standard to this you don't live in the real world where that occurs all the time.  Both groups do basically the same things but only one gets described as rapists and savages constantly. Don't like my opinion downvote me and move on. But I'm just being real...I thought that was something you politically incorrect types valued.I sure as hell don't. She's a conqueror, not a ruler. She'd be a disaster for Westeros. They need someone who can sort out the mess after the war and fix the broken economy. Even if defeating the Others means an early spring, things won't be easy. I don't. She's an over confident little brat in the book.That's why I chose this time. I feel like I'm drowning in the Khaleesi fans that don't even know Tyrion's name and refer to him as "the midget".Who played it better besides Baelish and Varys? If you don't mind me asking your opinion. I only added the last part about female characters so that it couldn't be used against me. People assume you are a women hater/misogynist because you do not like Dany.Thats why I hope, that Euron slits her throath and rapes Grey Worm 

#TeamEuronSo I like and dislike book Dany, but vehemently hate show Dany. In the books she's shown to be insecure, doubtful, and inexperienced. In the show it's clear she has plot armor and that D&D have a crush on her. It's honestly atrocious the writing they've done for show Dany and I do not understand why people like her. So in the show she is literally designed to be a girl empowerment role model. And it's a shame. She is in no way a good role model. Everything is handed to her by loyalists to her family, her literal blood, or through plot armor. Everything goes her way and it's atrocious that anyone would think that she, who is profoundly lucky is a good role model for women in crappy situations. 

Look at the Tyrells. They've a long history of being heavily influenced by the women of their house, who arguably have had much more power than the men in that family. Look at Margaery and Olenna, in both the show and books, they both are in crappy situations but still make the best of it, manipulating the overwhelmingly male dominated world and rising to great prominence. It just drives me crazy that so many like Dany because f female empowerment. It's just boring and unrealistic.Feudalism is unfair but its disingenuous to compare it to slavery. The peasants have to fight in the wars and provide food for the Lords but they can sell their extra food, make a profit. Its really no different than rent and conscription. Of course if there is a bad season, the lord needs to be fed before your kids but similarly, you don't get around paying rent.As it stands, she has the ONLY claim to the Iron Throne. Nobody in Westeros would refute she is a valid heir. 

Nobody knows who Jon is and even once it's revealed the likelihood they would believe it, recognise him and/or validate a second marriage by Rhaegar is somewhat slim. 

There is no more valid claim to the throne than Dany's at present. 

Do I back Jon? Of course. But stripping Dany of her validity as the current heir because you hate her is utterly absurd. That is just ridiculous. First, nobody knows that, so who cares? Second, by everyone standards, he is still a bastard.I dunno why you see the opposite on this sub. It is flooded with Dany fans. You will get downvoted to the depths if you say anything negative about her, you can't even talk about Emilia Clarke's acting now.Well said. Stannis was the rightful king,
Danerys is just a foreign queen in both slavers bay and in westeros 
She should have stayed with the dothraki instead of killing every dothraki khal and asking the dothraki to abandon their sacred land to conquer a foriegn landPeople always say how Jon will reluctantly take the throne in the end and it's bittersweet because he doesn't want to , but what if the same turns out to be true for Daenerys , realising it's a pain to be queen . 


Daenerys really never recieves enough credit for slavers bay , I mean she had no reason and no obligation to free any of those slaves , it turned out to be a horrible outcome (see astapor  ) with the power vacuum she leaves in her wake , but I'd rather she leave it with a vacuum because at least she gives slaves the option to take freedom , the major misjudgment I think on her part was that none of the cities or free cities have a monarch 

.I always think the fandom is quick to point out where she went wrong in Meereen due to her storyline being completely removed from Westeros,  I wish all the characters were held to the same standards and critiques that Daenerys , Catelyn and Sansa are subjected to .Would you mind editting this to make it a little more readable?   

Two spaces after the last sentence in a point then space down and it will make the *world* of difference.    

As of now it's just a huge block of words.  
I know I'm nitpicking but I feel others may want to read what you wrote. I don't give two wits about Stannis. But as for Dany, I am very curious to see whether the show greys on its portrayal of her. Will she be nobly set against characters we loath, or come into conflict with characters we love? I would like to see both, but I worry the latter will be absent. I would also like to see Dany - Dany herself, not just someone related to her - come under mortal threat or danger. She feels like she's on a pedestal, god tier in her untouchability, and only seems to struggle secondhand. This isn't me disliking her - I simply think it would do great favor to her character to bring her closer to the earth. Most ideally, I'd like to see her with a weapon in hand this season.Meereen is a terrible slog in the show because it's barebones. The only faction is the Sons of the Harpy who apparently represent the whole of the resistance front and are funded by *all the masters of Yunkai, Astapor, and Volantis*. What?Yea this is one of the reasons I've stopped frequenting this sub unless in season, and still almost every thread has a barrage of feminist mocking too.

Even better is the parroting of the bullshit claim of, "Only show-only watchers like Dany."  No, you're just in a predominately male echo chamber, and they probably know one female reader, if any at all, irl.  Which is ironic, because women are more likely to read than men on average.  I know several female book fans, beyond myself, and most do at least like Dany well enough. 

If it's not that, then it's the pretentious claim that we're dumb for liking fan service.  As if that pendeleum doesn't swing both ways.

 Jeez, it even makes me wonder what the crossover from here and r/anime is like.

Whatever, I can't wait until George makes Stannis burning Shireen book canon.  This sub is going to be covered in salt.You dumbass. People don't shit on Dany cause of the Dothraki. They shit on Dany cause she's the saviour and that sometimes comes across as Mary Sue-ish. Maybe that's cause of sexism. Maybe that's cause, where Jon is Ice and restraint, Dany's Fire and Blood. Her arc is far more violent than Jon's and that grinds people's gears the wrong way. Since she's the "Queen of the East" leading a Dothraki horde purely for conquest, that's totally different than reluctantly letting in Wildings to avoid the White Walkers.


You're not being moral, you dumbass.. You're being a judgmental SJW fuck that uses shame to one up people.

Edit: Wow, your post history is trash. Literally every comment is talking about a circlejerk...

BTW, for other people, I personally like Dany and was surprised/disagree with the occasional online hate for her. But I'm not a big fan and the show definitely gives her increasingly thick Valyrian steel plot armour.Wow. Ok so the reason most people I know dislike Dany is because they see that literally everything goes her way and that she gets over every obstacle easily, she gets great speeches (which are largely tacky and entitled), has the dragons and fire immunity trump card, and is just generally an entitled whiney brat. It's the shows bad writing. You mention the books, so you ought to know the difference between her book character and show character.

 And chill dude. We're talking about Dany not the Dothraki or the Wildlings. Recall that a lot of people liked Drogo despite the fact that he raped and killed people.

And remember that Jon was opposed for several seasons by many in the Nights Watch and was literally murdered because people didn't like him. Where's Dany murders a room full of Khals while their bloodriders do???? Her plot armor != Jons plot armor. The writers spoil her.Jon is allying with the wildlings to save the inhabitants of Westeros from extermination. Dany is allying with the Dothraki to conquer Westeros and restore her shitty family to the throne.Great reply. Nailed it. I upvoted you on your first paragraph, because Daenerys and Jon aren't held to the same standards even though they parallel each other 

And then I read your second paragraph and downvoted saying people only hate the dothraki because they're brown , there's no racial element to the hate the dothraki receive they are exactly that rapists , I mean really watch season one or read Dany's AGOT chapter and tell me they're not . The free folk in Jon's story are there to parallel , the slaves in Daenerys's story . Free Folk - Slaves  , it's a clear contrast between the two of them> Another Dany bashing thread how original.

Plenty of subject material, there. Can't really shit on something solely because it's discussed a lot, can you?

> Also it's interesting how Dany gets criticized for having the Dothraki but Jon never gets criticized for the Wildlings who literally have cannibals among them.

Usually, it's not the "being affiliated and allied"-thing that gets criticized, so you cannot really compare the two situations like that, at least not in my opinion.

Dany seeks to use the savages attack a continent, despite having seen what the Dothraki do after their attacks from up close *and disagreeing with it*. She's consiously releasing a raping and destructive metric fuckton of people into Westeros, where there is more than plenty to rape and/or destroy.

Whereas Jon, Jon is using them because *there's really nothing else* he can use. Where else is he going to gather such a large force of people but for the Wildlings, who in the same action have been prevented from adding a vast amount of numbers to the White Walkers' ranks. 

> Ohhh wait the Dothraki are brown and are therefore mindless savages

...Says who? We've seen the fuckers up close, we *know* their culture doesn't look down on rape and slaughter and what have you all. Nothing to do with them being brown, good Ser and/or M'lady. 

> and the Wildlings are white and have that hilarious Tormund

They sure are and they sure do. What's the point, again?

> (who killed innocent women and children but we'll ignore that because we like shipping him with Brienne).

Yes. He did. And I've seen plenty of people criticize Tormund for that, and an equal amount of people criticizing Jon for not thinking these crimes are terrible. You'd be hard-pressed to find someone in the fandom willing to accept and forgive these crimes simply because Tormund is a witty man, however. Did he ever mention jon? ChillaxSeems to me that the vast majority of Game of Thrones fans are die hard Daenerys supporters that name their kids Khaleesi. Did I say I supported Jon? There is a difference between the Khalisar and Wildlings, though. There are a few thousand wildlings, the region can handle it. Not 100,000. Also the wildlings had not choice but to come to Westeros.> Dothraki are brown and are therefore mindless savages

Ok slow down. You just went from 0 to 100 real quick. You're making so pretty serious assumptions behind peoples opinions. Just because someone judges the actions of the Dothraki, doesn't make them racist.>They need someone who can sort out the mess after the war and fix the broken economy

Like Tyrion?You're right! But In the show, she is orders of magnitude worse. She's bedecked in plot armor and has literally every advantage go her way. That is what I'm sick of. It's just bad writing.Agreed.Lol, I suppose that's part of the reason some people also hate Dany. ^^What do you have against Gray Worm? Has there not been enough sexual violence already?That's dark but it's totally what he would do. He's never taken an unsullied before.Uhh prob other way around there YoungbuckMaybe not that exactly, but I wouldn't mind if something bad, but not that bad, happened to Dany, so that she'd be humanized, shown to be able to err, and have less thick plot armor.I'm not being disingenuous, I really believe that there are tons of examples of feudal systems worst than some examples of slavery.  

There have been *a lot* of different systems of feudalism and slavery in human history.   
Westeros feudalism seems like one of the rougher feudalistic systems but *we are* seeing it in war time so I'll cut it some slack.    
Funny, because almost all I see is a Dany hate circlejerk. What are you even saying? Once the Khal died she didn't have a horde? And those that were there were loyal to her cause. Again, as far as she knew for a long time her dad was unjustly killed and someone else took over. And she'd make a damn great queen on top of it all because she's actually compassionate. Exactly say it, people get annoyed ten times easier with female characters.Fixed! (I totally wasn't sure for a long time how to do that; thank you!)When the Khalasar takes her, was she not in danger? Before she admitted to being Drogo's widow, that is. It's not so much that there wasn't danger, but that she isn't thwarted by it. I do think her interacting with other characters will be interesting though, for sure. Meereen's a terrible slog in the books too. Harzoo zo Harzoo weren't interesting characters. You can't even pronounce half the damn meereenese names.The show, yes, which did it a disservice almost (but not quite) on par with the retardation of Dorne and the Iron Islands. The Sons of the Harpy are ridiculously done, for sure. However, even in the show they've demonstrated her becoming better at compromise and such. But the books illustrated it better. As if the wildlings didn't rape the southron people...> Seems to me that the vast majority of Game of Thrones fans are die hard Daenerys supporters that name their kids Khaleesi.

I don't think that's everyone's experience.I hate that Jorah didn't stand up to her like he did in the book.Im Carlos, YoungFuck is deadIm still reading the books, but do you think Euron could potentially kill a major character like Daenerys?


For the show, there is still one big plot twist left, so...You could say the same things about jobs, and thus near every economic system.Make a pro-Dany post and anti-Dany post. See the difference. I know Dany gets a lot of unnecessary hate but in the show season this sub becomes full of Dany worshippers.Her native land is valyria, She is not a native of westeros and mereen yunkai and astapor were part of ghiscari empire so she is not a native of slavers bay either she is a foreign queen
and thousands of people will die for her desire to sit on a throne made of swords

She was married to a dothraki horse lord so the dothraki were her people after khal drogos death she should have stayed in vaes dothrakh [I assume you're own mobile then?](http://imgur.com/a/ABUwr) If not there is a formatting button below the comment box.  

Anyways it's much more readable now! :)

Also, a danger where she does not make an inspirational speech before, during, or after! I know that's setting my wishlist's bar pretty high. :PI will clarify: I would like to see her in danger to someone that she does not recruit at any later point. That is why I did not count the Dothraki, though it is a fair point.That's coz they were added later and people wanted their old storylines like the war of the five kings. Skahaz etc are very interesting and the politics is pretty intriguing too, dany actually was a perfect ish ruler. Weird that people like some drawn out boring stories like dorne and euron coz of their behavior alone but not these. At least the story makes sense. In the show there are no moving parts. Slaver's Bay exists in a vacuum, and even though the only resistance group in the city has an army's funding, no one can figure out who's behind this massive conspiracy until Varys swoops in and figures it out as soon as he enters the city by interrogating one foot soldier who apparently knows the masterminds behind the operation.To be honest both show and books meereen suckA portion, perhaps. Contrary to the Dothraki, that fall under a singular culture and set of traditions, the "Wildlings" is just a collective term for the people North of the Wall, that're divided into a plethora of different clans. Not all *Wildlings* are cannibals, there are just some clans wherein a culture is prevalent of which cannibalism is a part. I think it's idem in regards to raping south of the Wall.Wait... I could have named my kid Jon? Man I bet he'd have gotten picked on a lot less.  Quite right. But also remember that Dany is really insecure and that humbled her a lot. It's a bunch of factors that make book Dany more human as opposed to power fantasy show Dany.Yea I think Euronext could do some serious damage to any number of people. And perhaps like how the show is headed he could mess up Denys fleet as she heads to Westeros. As is, it's more likely that he messes with Sam.Agree 100% Born in Westeros, family has lived in Westeros for 300 odd years. Not Westerosi. That feel when you are so wrong. Haha, whoa now...let's be reasonable here.I don't like Dorne, and the only reason why I don't mind the Ironborn storyline is that Cthulhu worshipping pirate vikings are fun to read about.

Meereen is just tragic with the Harzoos, and the Graces, and all those pointless storylines like Quentyn.We also know that not the entirety of the Dorthraki are riders and what we see through Dany's eyes are the top warriors and blood riders of Khal Drogo. I think the Dorthraki can be controlled, won't be easy and won't be perfect but I am willing to wait and see rather than pass judgement.His fleet is currently at Kings Landing, right near Dragonstone. They would have had to sail past Oldtown to get to Kings Landing. **Maps**I doesn't matter if she was born in westeros her family is hated in westeros because of the mad king the people will perceive her as an evil invader/conqueror Haha. But yeah. Know the theory that she loses a dragon to the night's king? I'm picturing something like that. The dragon has fallen. She goes to it, her child, as the army of the dead advances. And the dragon begins to move again, in a twisted version of every silly show's "Nope, actually fine," fake out. Dany watches or is beaten back as the night's king advances to his new claimed dragon. Give me that scene and I wouldn't even care if another dragon swoops in to evacuate her.

Or something like that.What? You seem to be talking about both show and book there champ.Doesn't Arya's chapters in clash/stom show that the small folk overall prefer the trags rule. I'd love a scene where she weeps for her dead dragon , her child . Their her children , after Drogos death , in Qarth when they're stolen or when she locks them away I'm Meereen and then realising she needs them for Fire and Blood , would be wonderful to see . Her child is now her enemy, I find that bittersweet. 

She hasn't been thoroughly brought to her knees since Drogos death , it would give her  the perfect incentive to destroy the WW . 

However this is the show so I'll put my bets on another "surprised Daenerys turns around with eyebrows raised to the max "  . A man can dream 
Hah. Yeah. I wouldn't mind Dany rocking the endgame like a badass. I'd just like to see her brought to her knees first, making it all the more satisfying.She's my favourite character so call me bias but if they done something like that at least , she probably wouldn't be as hated by this sub then she is now Somewhat unrelated, but I think GoT/ASOIAF might be a book Sam is writing. Perhaps the opening credits is a tour through the library?As I sketched out [here](https://us.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6o1pnd/spoilers_extended_what_will_samwell_learn_and_how/) it's largely a question of what Sam is going to learn, what's going to happen to Oldtown, and where his character arc is going.

So far the show has not given us a lot to go on. It's skipped entirely the growing sense in the book that Oldtown will be sacked by Euron and the only thing Sam has learned is information from earlier in the books that the show had previously ignored.

Sam's going to have to both be forced out of Oldtown and learn some skills or knowledge of much greater importance before he can complete his arc and be relevant to the greater story once again.The archmaester was ebrose, not marywn. Also the show will end before he could become a maesterHe already stole the secret books. I think it's more likely he'll be expelled/leave, this is not a world where dreams come true after all.

I guess there could be further books but I think huge reveals will be given a stronger narrative then being found in a book.There is no evidence that says Jon was given Winterfell, just that he was named King in the North. He could choose what ever seat he wanted as King.

He calls Sansa Lady of Winterfell (if it were his wouldn't he save that title for his wife?) and he gives her the Lord's Chamber.

I think it is his intention to let her have Winterfell and if they survive the Walkers he would choos a different seat or build a new one.I think traditionally one must have a title within a given kingdom to be eligible for ascension. E.g The Queen of England was once (may still be..its all very complex) the duchess of York.

Long story short. Sansa, Jon, Bran and Rick(maybe if hes still kicking) have only claims to titles. No actual titles. Claim on (what I'm calling a Ducal tile) to the "north" as a region within the Empire(or Kingdom of Kingdoms if you like) of the Iron Throne, a County claim over the family lands in and around Winterfel and a Barony direct dominion of the castle and town in Winterfel via their father or mother. AND a claim on the title of King of the North Via Rob and for just being Starks I guess. Jon takes Winterfel and via his (though be them weak) claims TAKES the lesser titles and is so eligible for Kingdom title.

As an aside. In order of strength of claim over the DUCAL title of Winterfel...it probably goes Bran, Rick, Sansa, Arya, Jon, Any Legitimate Baratheon, Any Legit Targ, Any Karstark, Any Greyjoy, literally anybody who sits at the head of the feasting hall in Winterfel and says "Im dakingindanorf"...who is then killed by any loyal swords man within reach.

Sansa lost her "right" to anything when her family lost Winterfel. She is again only the rightful ruler if there is no Jon or if gifted a title by someone who controls it.  And so far as I know, "Warden" is an appointed rather then a claimed title. She would only be "warden" if whoever sits the Iron Throne said so...but since the Kingdom of the North and Iron Throne are completely separate countries it doesn't matter.

In this way Jon son of Rhaegar son Aerys has a stronger claim on the Iron throne then Dany or Tyrion son of Aerys. And right now Jon has dominion over 1/7th of the legitimate titles in the Empire of the Iron Throne.Sansa is a girl and gender equality hasn't kicked in yet except the bear islands in the northBlood relations mean only so much as the people who believe them. Jon was essentially proclaimed a Stark by his followers. I see this as no different than a Lord legitimizing a bastard on his own. He is, as far as anyone knows, the oldest of Eddard's kids, and would now be at the front of the line.I imagine there will be a conversation between Sansa and Bran, and one will step aside. Sansa does still have another castle at her disposal, by right.Jon was named king because of his actions, not because of succession. It's similar to Benedict rivers becoming king of the riverlands. After that the line of succession his what he says it is"There is no evidence that says Jon was given Winterfell, just that he was named King in the North. He could choose what ever seat he wanted as King."

"No evidence" - I agree, that's what I'm hoping they'll clear up.

King of the North, a Stark by blood, where else besides Winterfell, the capital of the North, would he live? Winterfell and a Stark in Winterfell (even a bastard) is symbolically very important.

"He calls Sansa Lady of Winterfell (if it were his wouldn't he save that title for his wife?) and he gives her the Lord's Chamber."

That was all before he was named King of the North.

"I think it is his intention to let her have Winterfell and if they survive the Walkers he would choos a different seat or build a new one."

I agree with this.And DorneI agree, Mormount says as much "Ned Stark's blood runs through his veins." 

"He is, as far as anyone knows, the oldest of Eddard's kids, and would now be at the front of the line."

If they make him a true Stark otherwise true born siblings come before bastard no matter of age or sex. My overall point though is don't you think they should at least address it? Seems like a pretty big event in the story.Which one? I understand how the line of succession works and why Jon was named king hence my comment about his merits. None of that addresses my point. Which is the show acknowledging/addressing the fact that Sansa was the rightful heir....however they wish to do that.

If they leave it at alone I'll just be disappointed since it is an important part of GOT.The history of Westeros is full of smudging the rules as far as lineage is concerned. That's why Cersei wanted to kill all of Robert's bastards. 

They did address it, in a sense, when Sansa told Jon he was good at ruling. It's sort of a concession. We also know that Sansa is more into pulling strings than being a figurehead, so there is no reason for her to challenge him on Head of the House.The Dreadfort. As Ramsay's widow, she has the best claim if she wants it.It has happened before, though we don't know how Maegor, son of Aerion felt.There is also a history of the Starks supporting the line of succession and the North. Although Glover later changes his mind, he denied Jon before the battle because he was a bastard and Mormount questions it also. Both story lines fit the history of Westeros I just hope the make issue clearer.

"We also know that Sansa is more into pulling strings than being a figurehead, so there is no reason for her to challenge him on Head of the House."

I'll have to disagree with that. Her rightful claim to her home is a big one and she was being prepared to rule (which includes pulling the strings), at one point as a Queen, not whisper in the shadows like Varys or an adviser.That would be interesting.Oh, I don't see her as a Varys or an adviser. She's more of a mix of Cersei and Littlefinger, not exactly at the front, but not far behind. As far as line of succession, sure, she could claim it, but I think she has her sights set on something greater than being Queen in the North. Personally, I think she's using Jon and right now she needs him as king because it will make gathering allies to her cause easier. it will make gathering allies to her cause easier.

That's a good point. That would show even more maturity and political sense to put her desire aside knowing there is a better chance, at least now, with Jon. They can make him lord of winterfell while Jon remains KitN if they really wanted to.They will be happy. Yes the events of the series has changed them but they are family and genuinely love each other. No tension. Bran isn't a Stark anymore. He's the Three-Eyed Raven.Bran won't care at all about lordship. He is 100% in on being the three-eyed raven. Especially, since he know who Jon Snow really is now, and will tell everyone else.I think Jon and Sansa will try to get Bran to be king, but he will refuse.They'll be happy. Jon and Sansa might disagree but they do love each other. Littlefinger will probably try and use this to get Sansa to turn on the others, she'll tell him to fuck off. 

Jon will still be king."OMG Bran, why didn't you send a raven earlier?"I agree Bran won't care but often it's more about what the source of power (bannermen, lords of the vale) cares about"You ding dong I WAS a raven and I WAS trying to tell you!!"True but if Bran declares for Jon then it's a moot point.Don't make Ygritte's death any harder bro.Aemon wasn't 300 but 102. Maybe that was hyperbole though FUCK YOU OLLY! Did you see his outfit? I would not hate it if he got burnt to death by a dragon. Oh.Book Euron is also totally planning on stealing dragons though The castle was empty because it requires a fleet to properly defend. Its on a tiny island. The lannister didn't have a fleet, nor did they have the coin to make a new one. Hence her alliance with Euron is so good for her.Am I surprised? Not at all. Every season ends greatly for her, except probably season 5. No matter how much people argue, she has been getting things easy since the beginning of the show. Of course there are some struggles, but she overcame them with extreme luck. Her ultra-impregnable thick plot armor made her boring to a lot of watchers. I am 100% sure that she will survive this season and probably will get close to death one or two times but will easily overcome them with her super power or cringy speech. She is way more interesting in the books. She will probably be awarded Casterly Rock by some cheap trick that Tyrion pulled off too. 

For the first time I was interested in her storyline was in season 6 when she was captured by the Khals. I was very intrigued to see how she overcomes it. Guess what happens? She gets a new, completely unexplainable super power, and burns everyone. And her fans keep cheering. She's a true American.*In the show*, Stannis and his forces have been vanquished. It looks like he placed all his eggs in one basket when he decided to try to conquer the 7 kingdoms from the north-down. He didn't appear to leave a castellan or anyone else in charge of Dragonstone. So I wouldn't say that its simply being *handed* to her, so much as its  a serendipitous state of affairs (and for the sake of the story, very much keeping in line with her family's heritage - traveling from Essos, establishing a foothold in the Narrow Sea, and launching an invasion from there).

Side note: Are you really saying that Daenerys didn't encounter any obstacles whatsoever? Are you really saying that she had no close calls on her own life, that her dragons haven't been taken from her at some point? That her situation before the birth of her dragons wasn't looking somewhat bleak? You just sound like you're complaining because a strong female character is having things "handed" to her, when really, she's faced her own challenges, struggles, and obstacles, and I'm sure she has more, and bigger ones to come, in both the show and in the books.must be her essos privileged nature :)  yesThat's what I'm talking about, her "close calls" seem to be there only so people can say "see, she had a hurdle" but we all know that she would get out of it unharmed and probably subjugating whoever tried to kill or harm her.Never have i implied that this is because she is a "strong female character", only that her hurdles were solved by what seems pretty thick plot armour.
Her pre show story does seem very sad, but from when it started it looked like she was simply follow by success and conveniently placed characters, dragons and what it seems complete incompetency of her foes. Just look at the dragons when they conveniently learned to breathe fire just at the right time, or her being able to comand army to kill the guy that just sold said army to her like no one though of that beforehand.I saw that as her outsmarting the guy that just sold her the army.  She spoke his language and knew what an ass he was.  She learned about the Unsullied and used that to her advantage.  She also knew she was able to command the dragon to kill the master at her call.  It is a fantasy tale, dude.That scene made no sense for a city that's living of of slave trade to be able to be attacked by those he just sold like there were no measures against that.Sorry dude, it's just that her story line seems so disconnected from the show that i get this unaxplainable rage every time i see her scenes.There are real things to be angry about, better yet don't be so angry, life is short bro. It's just a show/bookIn the show the only two people still on her list are Cersei and the Mountain though. Ilyn Payne being removed because the actor got diagnosed with terminal cancer, he has since recovered but not well enough (yet?) to return to acting. This is also why its Bronn teaching Jaime instead of Ilyn as in the books.

I highly doubt there are caves behind that. It is just an alcove. 

Note that it is on beach-height. On high tides the water will come up to the rocks. If there are caves they are filled with sand and water now.Yes, after seeing some posts here and on r/gameofthrones, I believe this is the same cave.  The entrance looks remarkably similar, so I doubt this is a coincidence.  I'm excited to see the extent of the underground mountain!Really good catch! I thought it was odd that they passed a cave but my brain didn't connect it to that diagram.Almost certainly. It's in the exact location it was shown on the map, South of the large staircase.So, I haven't seen anyone else point this out yet, but this cave looks eerily similar to the drawing that Sam saw in the book at the citadel.Being that it's Littlefinger, the dagger is probably from the last Long Night and it's the only way to stop the deadNotice everyone who has possessed the dagger besides Littlefinger dies?  The same way everyone who possesses Harrenhal besides Littlefinger meets some horrible fate?

I conclude the dagger is cursed, and Littlefinger has some weird curse-proof mojo protecting him.The thing is, both in book and show, we don't *know* that Joffrey sent the Catspaw or ever got his hands on the dagger. It's pure conjecture by a couple of characters in the story. It could very well be a red herring, and Bran will one day see the truth in his visions.Little finger doesn't possess it .  If he ever did, it was before the first episode.  Currently, the blade is packed in Eddards things being shipped back home before he was imprisoned.  So it either resides somewhere in KL, or was shipped back to WF.I agree.  Just for fun, consider the following that doesn't involve any Lannister/Littlefinger throne obsessed antics.

(1) the dagger is made from two materials known to kill Others;

(2) the dagger is pictured in restricted books at the citadel 

(3) the attempt on Bran coincides with the beginning of his 3ER dreams

(4) M Ebrose just treated us to a speech about how Westerosi are dogs who can't see past their next meal, while maesters know and preserve knowledge of matters that cross generations including the long night. 

Melisandre, through her shadow demon baby, murdered Renly in order to advance her belief in a greater war between Rh'llor and the Great Other.  Renly's followers didn't grasp this and blamed Brienne.  They assumed "ordinary" motives and people to be at play. The same could be said of blaming Littlefinger/Joffrey/Tyrion etc. It assumes a throne/political power based motive.  

So... (pause for tinfoil), maybe the citadel arranged for someone to take the dagger from Robert and sent the catspaw to assasinate Bran in an early attempt to stave off a new long night.  This of course assumes that Bran's destiny as greenseer marked by the Night king is somehow instrumental in bringing the long night.  A maester would have access to much of a royal household.  Maybe the citadel, like Melisandre, is engaged in its own big picture strategy, but more secretive in its actions.

TL; DR:  It was the Citadel (acting through an assasin), with the Dagger (stolen surreptitiously out of KL through maestro connections), in the Bedroom.

Edit: spellingThere's a ssm where GRRM says we get the answer to who sent the catspaw in ASOS. So it's either Joff or Mance (In ASOS we're told Mance hopped the Wall with a bag of silver to be at the feast in AGOT) but I'm leaning towards Joff because the other seems unlikely While you're right that we don't know for certain, I would posit, who else could it be? Cersei and Jaime could have had opportunity, sure, but Jaime admits that they discussed it and decided against it, thinking Bran would die of his wounds. Also, I'm sure they'd recognize the value of a Valyrian steel blade, and certainly wouldn't send such a recognizable and valuable weapon with an assassin.Or, if you want, you could argue that Bloodraven was behind it somehow, trying to create the events that would bring Bran to him.You have a link for this? I'm very convinced it was Joff, getting official confirmation from Martin would be awesome.Littlefinger is never out of the question. It served his interests more than anyone.I like that, too...> I will tell you that ASOS will resolve the question of Bran and the dagger, and also that of Jon Arryn's killer.


http://www.westeros.org/Citadel/SSM/Month/2000/04/
I'll agree his motive is strongest, but the evidence doesn't support him and cersei. Maybe he and Joffrey? I still don't think he would choose a blade so easily tied to himself.Jaime's the one who needs a hand.Right?

"Hey Beric, mind if I borrow your lightsaber?"

Seems easier than flintTake the upvoteOfficially yes. However, I doubt she would exercise those rights as a Bolton.  Technically yeah. In the books, Ramsay's previous wife (the Lady of Duskendale?) was the widow and heir to her castle and lands and he got all of it when he married herHornwood. 



Will it ever occur to Sansa that she is the Lady of the Dreadfort, the Lady of Winterfell, and should a drunken Tyrian claim that he consummated their marriage, someone with a claim on Casterly Rock?Even though she's never been there I don't think she wants anything to do with the Dreadfort. And as well as Tyrion can play the game of thrones, lying about sleeping with someone that he hasn't slept with isn't his M.O. Not Casterly Rock even then, for several reasons.> And as well as Tyrion can play the game of thrones, lying about sleeping with someone that he hasn't slept with isn't his M.O.

Tyrion lied to Jamie about killing Joffrey. He was stressed at the time, but he did lie. Would lying about Sansa be so out of character?I didn't say that he didn't lie. I said that he wouldn't lie about sleeping with someone that he hasn't slept with. We read his character differently, I guess. I see Tyrion's motives for lying to Jamie:

* I want to hurt Jamie, so I will tell him I killed his son.
* I want to deny Jamie any sense of feeling good about preventing my unjust execution, so I will tell him I am guilty.
* I have been brought to trial twice, on false charges of Bran's attempted murder and of regicide, and I am weary of being a pitiful innocent, so I will try being a scoundrel for the change

If Tyrion came to believe that he could take Casterly Rock away from the Lannisters and give it to the Starks by swearing that his marriage was consummated, I think he might.> Lannister soldiers

They are not Lannisters actually, they just fight *for* the Lannisters. Arya doesn't take revenge on just any common soldier --in the opening scene this season she (as Frey) specifically said she (as he) had reunited all the Freys who helped in the Red Wedding. Not just a bunch of people who happened to fight for the Freys.While it's fairly obvious that nymeria will show up in the next episode, I'd be surprised if the wolf pack that follows nymeria in the books is in the show. Has the show mentioned the wolf pack at all?I know they're not Lannisters. That's just an easy way to describe them and how I think Arya sees them at first.

She is hesitant to join them because of the colors they wear. She surveys their weapons as she sits with them.

Once they are kind to her, she becomes comfortable with them. But the moment they would have been shits or told her of the bad things they've done, she would have taken them out.

I don't believe the wolf pack has been mentioned in the show.So.... where DID you get your "theory" then?My theory is focused on Arya's motivations and why she makes the choices she does, whether she meets just Nymeria or Nymeria and a whole wolf pack.

And I didn't get my theory anywhere; it's based on thinking about Arya and her arc, as well as seeing an image of a wolf appearing in next episode.Ok cool then what everyone else said. She don't know yet, maybe Mel tells herI totally understand your point of view but the actress is so great I say let it go for now. I doubt she's going to affect the overall plot.The main thing that annoyed me about her "girls will train" speech is that it's fucking Bear Island. The women fucking fight in the army anyway. 

*points to Maege and Dacey* Agreed. Think they're overusing (and overselling) her schtick. 

She's precocious and wise beyond her years but they're in danger of turning her into a cross between Gandalf and John McClane.I cringe whenever she speaks. Really feels like an unrealistic character that reminds you you're watching a TV show. I never really liked her character in the show even though this sub loved her. She's so young, how could she possibly have the consistent strength of character and maturity to act like an adult at a war council and command respect from the other lords. Really feels like they wrote her to be as "bad ass" as possible it's so cringeyWell there is something to be said about those two lords still dealing with the shame of not heading the call to banners. They want to prove they are loyal now, so starting a hissy fit with Lyanna wouldn't help. The other half is that what she says is usually true. So going against her would be acting on pride, not on what is right. Those two combined is probably why Glover acts so subdued.Just wait until she rides a dragon and kills a white walker. Then you can really hate on the writers.It really takes me out of scenes when she talks down other lords. When she talked down her own subjects on Bear Island I was 100% behind it because it is her house, you have to earn that kind of respect to be able to talk to other lords like that and she has not been alive long enough to do so.I think she has been in one scene too many by now.I was also downvoted this weekend when I said that it got too much.

Yeah, her first couple scenes last season were great.

But right now she reminds me more of Wesley Crusher than on a believable character.A 10 year old girl speaking about warfare and training to a room full of veterans was cringeworthy. It also goes against character. Lyanna Mormont would be smarter than that. > Think back to the scene where Robb has Greywind attack the Greatjon to make him respect Robb. Respect is earned in the North, not given freely. Robb was older than Lyanna, and their liege lord.
> Lord Glover being afraid of her is just not realistic.

How old is Lyanna in the books? Keep in mind Robb was only 15 or so.

More importantly, the key difference is that Robb (and Jon) is their liege lord, Lyanna is not. She doesn't need to command trust; she just needs to put him in his place. If the women of Bear Island are willing to fight, but the Glovers aren't, what does that say about his people? He already refused to call to arms once...

Which brings me to my final point: Lord Glover is not Greatjon Umbar. Greatjon was a tough man to convince, but once his loyalties were won they were fierce-some. Then there's Lord Glover who refused Jon's call to arms against Ramsey Bolton. While Greatjon had strong convictions, Lord Glover is not a man to pick the losing side.You're thinking too much about her being a little girl/kid and less about the fact that she's the leader of an important house loyal to the Starks.I thought the same thing. Everyone loved when she said "I don't need your permission to defend the north!" but I cringed. That's like, a total straw man attack on Glover. He didn't want his granddaughter fighting, he didn't say shit to you girl. How about you shut up for once and stop trying to put everyone down.I love that she's a child ruler who knows how to rule, but I get irked by the line "I'm not going to sit knitting by the fire while men fight for me." Like, yes, it is absolutely useful to learn how to defend yourself. But highlighting this at the expense of a feminine-coded activity, which will be very useful in making or repairing winter clothes and furs and gloves? Is this what they think feminism cheers for? And there are other rulers who have no choice but to sit by the fire, while still issuing commands and strategies, because of physical disabilities like Doran, Willas, (Bran), etc.The other Lords listen to Lyanna because Jon listens to Lyanna.  The King gives respect, the Lords give respect.   I don't see her as an "only breaking stereotypes" role at all.  She is doing that but she is also the voice of tradition and honor for the North.  She is a champion for loyalty and the Norther way.  It is no wonder they chose a young lady for the role.  The North had in many places lost their sense of tradition.  The old dudes got wrapped up in politics and selfish concerns.  It takes new blood to remind the older lords what they have forgotten.  Why do you think the Umber and Karstark kids are young also?  They are setting the future up for the young since that is who the future is all about.  Lyanna gives a second voice that has not broken its honor to Jon.  Her support was key to Jon becoming King.  Say what you will about the Northern Lords but they respect House Mormont.  The Mormont's reputation is pretty impeccable and even has a father disowning his son because he did something to bring dishonor on his house.  

Lyanna is there for more than badass kid.  It is what people pick up on the most but her role has other purposes as well.  I think she will eventually interact with Jorah as well and if she lives, which would add another layer to her story. 

They also named her Lyanna for a reason.  She has characteristics of Lyanna Stark in her bravery, honor and fierceness.  Lyanna was the name of Jon's mother and it is no coincidence that the younger Lyanna is keen on what really matters to Jon and to the North.  

I could be talking out my butt but that's how I see it. UPVOTE!!!!I'll agree with you insofar as the fact that I think she'll have no more depth than what we are getting. She serves as much to the plot rn as Alys karstark, and Ned Umber. It's a loose end that can now be ignored until war happens. 

So yeah, I think that's all we should get for her character now. Sadly, that means she gets no character development. Then again...we're six episodes away from the finale. Not much room for development until mains start dying.

My favorite character, Arya, got the cold open fan service, but that fan service makes up for the difference between book Freys, and show Freys. BwoB, LSH, and Nymeria have all been taking bites out of the Frey's in the books. This caught up the kill count. If she became your favorite character that quickly with what little screen time she had then you're part of the problem. You created this little walking trope lol Geez. Relax~~The future is female~~

Winter is women  Yeah... This is a problem that we've seen before with characters in the show. Most noticeably Loras Tyrell, who in the book happens to be gay quite secretly, while in the show acting out his homosexuality and/or acting in a stereotypically feminine way in pretty much every scene he is in. 

I really think it should have been Brienne instead of Lyanna speaking. For one, she's actually a female trained in swordsmanship, and while she isn't Northern, she's still a noble and possibly the heir to Tarth (can't remember) so she's still a noble that has the authority to speak.[The biggest reason I hate Lyanna Mormont in video form](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ek2O6bVAIQQ) (no, this isn't about Lyanna Mormont directly but rather about the phenomenon infecting the show that makes her popular and possible)

She's a fanservice character that's popular because she's "badass" as a small child. It's pandering nonsense. Which is hilariously ironic because Lyanna Mormont is the most *actually* feminist character in the show at this point.

Fun Fact: The linked video was originally uploaded *one week* before S6E7 "The Broken Man"I love what turtle-paced wrote on the issues of Lyanna. http://turtle-paced.tumblr.com/post/163118014612/whats-your-opinion-on-lyanna-mormont-i-foundBasically they got a bit carried away with her. They saw the memes and fans liked her sternness.

Won't be surprised to see her leading a line of cavalry later on in the seasonI agree, i can't buy war veterans just taking a 10 year old's sass.Totally agree. She seems almost OP in all her interactions. She is a badass we get it Did no one rewatch the season finale before this?

The other Northern houses haven't got shit to say for abandoning their vowsIt seems like the same thing that happened to Walking Dead is now happening to Game of Thrones: nuanced characters have largely become one note. 

I still like the show, but it's fallen quite a bit and I'm basically waiting for Winds at this point as I vastly prefer the books, especially after the show's nosedive in writing quality. I think the issue with Lyanna is that she was always intended to be a one-dimensional, small-part, comic-relief character, but the fans loved her so much that they started giving her more lines. And at this point I don't know that they can spend time developing her as a character when there's so much story to get through.> Respect is earned in the North, not given freely

It's possible that in their society, lords simply are respectful toward women, especially in public, and especially if the women are from a "noble" house.Feminism is little girls shoutingShe answered the call, the others didn't, that's why she has so much clout in the new regime and that's how she earned her current status. She bitch slapped them because she could. I was in the last Lyanna thread where people were going so far lauding using *cannon fodder against zombies* as a brilliant strategy. Thank you for this deeeeeeeeeeeep breath of sanity. Do not worry they are going to ruin one of your favorite characters by giving her stupid speeches in the upcoming episodes. It is known :D

lord glover was talking about her own granddaughter he was not talking about every women and child in the north and lyanna was like "i am not going to sit by the fire while men fight for me"

This is just the stupid writers trying to make the stupid fans happy nothing elseThe show in general just feels like fan service now.The angle I think the show has gone for is that the northmen feel shamed by the fact they accepted Bolton rule, and the indignity of it. Lyanna is producing 'truth from the mouth of babes' which isn't so much smackdowns but more that men with tails between their legs who may not have the conviction of the position they argue, fold.

However, that's being positive, I think more likely is that D&D aren't thinking 'truth from the mouths of babes' but 'kids say the darndest things' and like all their little faves will bent the scripts to suit them.

I think there's a high chance her role will become as ubiquitous and as inexplicable as Olly's, which is sad because like many things her character is good in moderation.I dislike her because she's essentially being used as a vehicle to please the "Yaaaaas khaleesi/queen" part of the fanbase.

It didn't make any goddamn sense at all for Jon to suggest that all women, and ESPECIALLY all the children, "learn" to fight. You need to arm them, provision them with armor and more food, and teach a massive amount of people how to use weapons that will absolutely be of almost no use whatsoever.

Think of the average ten year old boy or twelve year old girl. Where I work, I see kids that age regularly. Not a single one of them would be able to run with a bigass spear of dragon glass or a torch without falling down or lighting themselves on fire. They are **children**. Grown men shit themselves when fighting other humans, what do you think kids will do when they see fucking zombies and the ice monsters their mothers told them scary stories about? They run, they die, and then their parents have to kill the reanimated corpses of their children. The same goes for most women save the few who would be effective combatants.

We've established that children are pretty much useless and would actually be counterintuitive and harmful to the chance of victory. The same would be true for most women; they could probably wield a torch well enough light a eight or two on fire, but you don't want anyone to get that close, do you? They couldn't be archers, either. It's hard enough for a grown man to accurately fire a bow let alone string one, it would be almost impossible for the average peasant women to do so. Again, more useless soldiers = more wights the Northerners have to kill.

That whole little 2 minute exchange is absolute nonsense and it was put in there for no reason other than a girlpower fan service. OP, you say you like Lyanna for how she is against age discrimination and gender roles, but you should consider that they exist for good reason, especially regarding warfare. It would be harmful to the North's already limited supplies to arm and provision them all for combat, and when they die the others will have to kill their loved ones.That whole Glover being like "you want to put a spear in my daughter's hand" thing seemed too out of character and unnecessary."I'm worried she's going to become just a token tough girl character who says profound badass lines to end arguments in all her scenes with no true character development or growth."

Well there's Daenerys Targaryen for you
> she's going to become just a token tough girl character who says profound badass lines to end arguments in all her scenes

I would be just fine with this too.How things realistically would've gone:

>"It takes more than a condescending attitude to charge a shield wall," Lord Glover announced. "I was leading Ned Stark's van when you were still sucking on your mother's teat, Lyanna."I think it makes sense that the other lords are immediately cowed by Lyanna. She's a very young highborn girl that is also the head of a house. They're walking on eggshells because they don't want to dishonor themselves by disrespecting her in any way. Yes, I agree completely. I feel as if D&D expanded her role to be a sort of fan-service character, but I do hope that they won't gloss over some glaring conflicts.


1. Like you said, she commanded her Maester even though she is female and a child because her last name is *Mormont* yet she did not try naming Sansa as Queen even though she is the only Stark known to be alive.


2. Someone else also mentioned in another thread that Jon is in possession of her ancestral sword. Are we going to see conflict over possession of Longclaw?


3. Bran and Arya are likely to be coming back to Winterfell. Like you mention, she wrote that there is no King except whose name is Stark, which she sort of flopped on this with my first point, but will she instead speak for Bran? Because under no cases is Jon a Stark. 


D&D do very well in adapting book material into show, but once they get too fan-fic-y (Dorne, Grey Worm + Missandei, etc.) the show loses depth and gets too ridiculous. I hope they get Lyanna Mormont right.She has gained respect though... first when she was one of the only houses to support the starks and also to speak up and tell the truth about the other lords. She has the advantage over the other lords becuase she was more loyal and loyality is a huge deal in the north. People will always respect her because she as a young girl chose to remain loyal and exact revenge for the north while they were cowards... A lot of people getting banned from /r/Bear_Island today... I swear sometimes it's like Bizarro World in this sub.I was pretty obvious after her first 3 scenes that she was not going to be deeply defined character. If you would define her much further you would hit the wall of conflict between her character and the fact that she's like a 9 year old girl. As someone who has studied to be a teacher I can assure you that a brain of a 9 year old is not capable of running a house and making anything but ridiculous dicisions if they were to run a fucking house.

Any scene she's in just absolutely crushes my dispension of disbelief.Robb hadn't done much yet, though. Yes, he was ruling in his father's stead, but how long was that? A year, tops? And before he calls his banners to march south to free Ned, he never participated in any sort of military action. Hell, in the books he had barely started using an edge blade.

Lyanna has been in charge of Bear Island for multiple years, proved herself a capable ruler (as a little girl, no less), and already participated in BOTB. She has more of a resume than Robb did at first.I feel like one of her main purposes as a character is going to be to die to the White Walkers, and lend the Night's King threat even more weight. 

To really make it feel apocalyptic and important after the Walkers have been on the sidelines so long, loved characters will probably need to dieLyanna sue :(My counterpoint would be that Glover stood down as he was still filled with honest shame for betraying the Stark name and not joining in arms.  I don't think he was afraid of her, I think it was a mix of shock/shame/respect.  Couldn't agree more... after everything Robb went through to earn the respect of other northern lords, her instant command of respect is absolutely unbelievable. 

Every time she stands up to speak, I know it's only written in for fan service, and that bugs me more than the actual impossibility of her characterHer personality reminds me of padme from star wars when she was the queen in episode one   On the declaration of King Jon scene - I really quite liked her calling out the 'greater' lords.  She's probably just a bit too young to know better, old enough to know what she wants to say.  I bet they would have been raging, but the pair of them had to swallow their pride because they knew that not only was she right, the man they wanted to plead their case too clearly had a lot more reason to respect Lyanna then he should do Glover or Manderley.

I don't think Lord Glover is necessarily afraid of her, just wary of how to respond to a young girl, especially in front of everyone.

I really hope we get to see more of all the Northern Lords.  Aside from Lord Manderly, how many of these Lords have ruled for longer than 5 years?  How many of them were even ever meant to rule?  We know that Glover and Mormont were not meant to inherit, before the Red Wedding. How experienced are any of them?  Something poetic in all of these minor noblemen and women who were never meant to rule, following a King who was never meant to rule either.I kinda cringed this episodeWith 12 episodes left, you're kind of crazy if you think they'll spend time providing depth to relatively new minor characters. Lyanna Mormont is there to play a fun little role as a kick-ass 10-year old. I'm not sure she'd have as much screen time if not for the huge reaction she got from her short appearances last season. We can enjoy her for what she is... they're not going to spend much time digging deeper. In fact, I'm not sure how much more time she'll get this season as action moves away from Winterfell.Exactly, I wanted her to just say "My mother was Robb Stark's loyal Bannerman, my Sister died at the red wedding, The Mormont women aren't the kind to sit aside as the men fight"Seriously, especially considering that the war has taken her entire goddamned family away from her. If I met an 8 year old that went through all that and acted like her I'd suggest some serious therapyThe leader of a house where the women were very much in charge.A couple hundred people isn't exactly an important house. They are more or less nothing.One does not simply go on r/asoiaf and tell people to relax. The whole point of this sub is for us to analyze and over analyze any and every topic pertaining to this series, and OP makes plenty of great pointsAgreed. The butchered loras in the show. He is one my favorite minor book characters and he's just such a loser in the show. Honestly, we need an empowered male character right now as silly as it sounds.["Sacrifice is never easy, Davos. Otherwise it is no true sacrifice"](https://sharkswithlaserbeams.files.wordpress.com/2015/06/jdzuvy9.jpg). Living on a small, isolated and insignificant island with few subjects allows you to make a lot riskier choices. Other landlocked Northern Lords were being asked to risk 1000x more lives to take up with a bastard in rebellion. And they were right too, the Vale DEM'd the fight and they had no idea that was coming. For all the information they had, some dumbass bastard was on a suicide mission against a clearly superior force that would end in all their deaths. 


Remember, "the King who Knelt" was always a term of endearment for a lord who valued his subjects lives so greatly he didn't slaughter them all for the purpose of his own vanity. Not only that, but she was the *first one* to answer the call.lol.

Jon: we must arm everyone we can in the north!

LF: Wouldnt that mean they would be marching against us if the white walkers kill our conscripts?

Jon: STAHP UNDERMINING ME!I wasn't sure if I was going to be agreed with or shouted down so I'm glad I'm not alone in my opinions  Good thing there are smart fans like you to tell them off!Well,  that's television for ya. 2 bossy little speeches in consecutive episodes isn't moderation?How do we even have to talk about this? Has no one ever heard of the [Volkssturm](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Volkssturm)? It was a desperate last attempt to salvage the German Reich, but it only led to a huge loss of lives. It was futile, they couldn' turn the situation around, it was all meaningless. Far too young boys and old men fought against healthy, well trained soldiers. Of course it didn't work out.

How could anyone for a second believe that a little girl could make any impact on a battle field where they used swords and horses? Most girls wouldn't even be able to lift an average sword and even if it was light enough, they wouldn't be able to fight against a grown, 180 pound man.The debate is over. They have already decided to do some form of that. The best outcome now would be if they limited it to training all the women and children to work a bow & arrow. They wouldn't necessarily have to be Ygritte levels or even Olly's, but enough to just shoot mass arrows towards the horde of Wights.[deleted]I like that she's not afraid to stand up to the northern lords, I don't like how they all cow before her. 

Counterpoint: They'll have to kill more wights regardless because whoever doesn't know how to fight is getting rolled over and killedIt was granddaughter's hand, IIRC.

I actually liked the line. He's not coming at it from an angle of "hah, girls r dum and can't fite gud like menz", he's coming it at from an angle of, "You want me to send my granddaughter off to die in a war?"FeminismI'm not a big fan of Dany but to say she hasn't shown growth is one of the dumber things I've read on this sub in a long time.Good point, but Jon asked for stuff like making arrows. That's something that any person should be able to do.And she would reply, "You weren't leading any van Ned Stark's or otherwise while you hid in your castle, whilst Bear Island fought alongside our King on the field of battle"> "It takes more than a condescending attitude to charge a shield wall,"

That's what I was thinking. Someone in another post used Arya as an example of a young female warrior but Arya is completely different. Arya is an assassin who has been trained by the best of the best yet even she probably would not last in a fair fight against an armored swordsman, let alone against wights or walkers.> they don't want to dishonor themselves by disrespecting her in any way.

I don't follow your logic. I would think they don't want to dishonor themselves by looking weak by being cowed by a ten year old girl from an insignificant (military-wise) house. Jon tried to return it last season and was shut downLyanna is probably playing the game of thrones!  

She won't be worried about longclaw either.  Jeor Mormont took it to the wall without passing it to his sister.  That means House Mormont was okay with it.  Also he gave it to Jon Snow himself and now Jon Snow is her king.  You don't fight with your king over a sword.  Actually, when/if Bran arrives to Winterfell, he'll tell everyone that Jon is BOTH Stark & Targaryan. He still has the righteous blood to claim the throne in the North and the South.

Which is ultimately where the show is headed.Didn't the lord commander change the pommel on the sword before giving it to Jon? Would it still be recognizable?> Someone else also mentioned in another thread that Jon is in possession of her ancestral sword. Are we going to see conflict over possession of Longclaw?

I've thought about this, and the conflict you speak of may come up if and when Jon encounters Jorah, but I don't see Lyanna trying to lay claim on a sword that is being wielded by her king.Sweet Summer RedditorsOsric Stark became the youngest Lord Commander of the Nights Watch at the age of 10 years.. So yeah, we do have examples of people leading at that age in the books too.

But I agree with most people here that Lyanna Mormont was a wasted potential since the writers gave in to fan service. I liked book Lyanna when she sent that letter to Stannis about acknowledging no king other than a Stark; but I prefer Wylla Manderly as a better (female) child character in the North yet. > she's like a 9 year old girl.

I've seen this over and over in this thread, but the actress who plays her isn't even nine, she's twelve. Did the show say Lyanna is nine, or are you just skewing low to try to make your point?

Remember, Robb was lord material at 14. A two year difference, and he would have been learning to rule LONG before that. I don't see why twelve is implausibly young.I believe she is twelve, which for a huge portion of human history is around when you would start looking for a spouse and getting ready to have children.

We spend more time educating, teaching, and caring about children. Our twelve year olds don't compare to ones back then - and twelve is around when they really are just tiny people, and mostly almost pretty close to being past the meltdowns over bedtime or whatever.Very different to judge a 9 year old in todays age and then judging a 9 year old, raised to rule in the medieval ages.There have been rulers in history at a young age... If your raised a certain way then its not that far fetched...She was at a parley but I haven't seen her on battle council or on battlefield, which kinda undermines her talk about not hiding behind men during battleI don't think D&D are in the business of killing off fan favorites anymore.I see this on the internet a lot, and I'm not picking on you, but why do you say "*die to*" the WW rather than "be killed by" the WW?Exactly this. Lyanna was 100% right and Glover had no proper defense against her. Agreed, I think this is what fuels their inability to call her out. That seemed pretty explicit in her "North Remembers" speech in episode s06e10, since that *is* why she called them out; her house answered the call, theirs did not.To add to this: I think a decent amount of the weight she pulls isn't actually her's - it's Jon's. They know damn well that if they speak out against her, Jon will shut them down, and from their position of weakness, shut them down quite harshly.She commands respect because she is a little girl calling old men out on their shit.

For all the talk of northern loyalty and vengeance most northern lords sat like beaten dogs in their castles during the Bob, she called them out.

Then we have an army of the dead marching south the kill every living thing. The king of the north give an order calling for everyone man and women to train. Lord Glover thinks this is an appropriate time to question his orders and promptly gets called out again.

This is exactly what Robb did with Great Jon except he had a direwolf rip off half his hand.She stood by Jon and the others didn't. It's that simple. Glover wasn't kidding when he said he'd carry that shame always. The other lords too know they fucked up and she didn't. >Every time she stands up to speak, I know it's only written in for fan service, and that bugs me more than the actual impossibility of her character

I felt this way about Olenna... like her every line was calculated to make people on Twitter go OMFG SLAAAAAY QUEEEEEN.Her lines all sound as though they've been written for Ollena. 

I have nothing against smart kids, but Lyanna is over-the-top. I'm probably one of the most SJW-types on this subreddit, and Lyanna just comes across as shitty pseudo-feminist pandering. 

If Lyanna were a little boy, do you think they would have written the character of a child-lord this way? Somehow, I doubt it. It seems like her entire character was conceived to juxtapose "little girl" with "badass take-no-shit ruler", and that was it. Kind of like Arya circa season 1, but turned up to 11, and without any of Arya's emotional vulnerability. > after everything Robb went through to earn the respect of other northern lords, her instant command of respect is absolutely unbelievable.

wouldn't that she had her house back house stark through everything earn her respect?  lords glover and manderly both admitted that they were wrong to deny the starks (meaning she was right to back them) and lord glover went as far as to say he'll regret not standing beside house stark for the rest of his days.  that this girl had the balls to do so when they failed to do so has to be worth something, right?I think that's just it, they're going too heavy with using her for fan service. I wouldn't mind her at all if they could... if they could give her a different beat. The same shtick over and over is just recycling the same lines she made in her first appearance.

It reminds me A LOT of Xaro Xhoan Daxos saying "I was but a poor man who came from nothing" over and over in the second season. If she could have given some advice to help settle the dispute this last episode about the Umbers, it would have been great, but it wasn't anything new for her.I think they also don't have the kind of time anymore to explore new characters in as much depth. Things are moving so fast now and they're trying to wrap everything up.DnD love doing this kind of thing on the show. They aren't half the writers GRRM  is and it really glaringly shows sometimes. They don't understand subtlety and complexity. Things are so often ham fisted and they beat you over the head with it.

Whenever Lyanna Mormont opens her mouth I just roll my eyes. Not because of what she is saying is necessarily wrong, but because of who he is and the response she gets."Why are we all listening to this 14-year old girl with no military experience?"  

https://youtu.be/ORWPCCzSgu0?t=2m13sOf all the replies in this thread, I think yours is the one that gets it. > I don't think Lord Glover is necessarily afraid of her, just wary of how to respond to a young girl, especially in front of everyone.

Agreed, there's a lot of "a king who must say he is king" in there. If he starts shouting down a child who's speaking bravely and honestly, there's no way to come off as looking powerful or lordly.> Aside from Lord Manderly, how many of these Lords have ruled for longer than 5 years? 

This is a really good point. I forgot Lord Glover is a fairly new lord. He was thrown into lordship after the Red Wedding. We don't know much of Lord Manderly from the shows, but from the books we know he is a pretty smart guy and definitely knows how and when to hold his tongue, like when he was pretending to be a friend of the Freys.That scene was very cringe-worthy and it didn't need to be. I'm pretty annoyed that Brienne of Tarth, arguably one of the best fighters alive in Westeros, had nothing to say during that discussion. I thought it was going to cut back to Jon or Sansa acknowledging Brienne which would force her to make a statement and then it cut to token badass little kid and my eyes instantly rolled. 

Like I said in my OP, I liked her reasoning, but the way it just ended all discussion was terrible. I get that they're pressed for time but that was just silly.Exactly, the show is not going to spend the time to give her a full and realistic character arc.  It's what GRRM would do, but the show is not the books.  It's cool that GRRM goes in such depth, but it's also the reason the books will never be completed. Sadly in D/D's adaptation they barely exist :( grr. But right now they are important because they displayed their loyalty where others failed. I agree they are a small house and despite my flair I also agree that I'd have liked to see some more conflict between her, Jon and the northern lords - children are a detriment on the battlefield and a larger army of weak peasants is going to be worse than a smaller army of at vaguely battle-ready men. 

It's one of Jon's failings here, to not understand the difference between how a wildling and a 'southerner' are raised. If children have to do something - have them building defenses, some level of basic training should the worse happen and transporting supplies and the like.

The women are a trickier issue, I don't know how much manual labour your average peasant woman does versus a peasant man. They are going to be weaker and not have battle experience but if they have some muscle they are going to be infinitely more useful than a child.So you think Jon should have punished her for stupidly supporting him or something? He did forgive the lords for the exact reasons you outline but I don't see how that relates to Lyanna earning her higher status.Children are not strong enough to draw a war bow, its nonsense no matter how they make it up.That's just a waste of time. Unsullied aren't effective until the end of their training, and the North can't train them one fourth as well as the Unsullied are. The war is coming *right now* 

This is super, super impractical, unrealistic, and counter productive. There's really no way around it. Someone explained it by glover being ashamed he didn't support the Starks, I get that but at some point they wouldn't put up with herThat should've been the main point IMO, not some stupid "lol gurl power" by the script writers. 

Jon and Glover were talking about conscription, it's not about 'can' but 'must' at that point. And the women and children would be far more likely to get rolled over without having done anything of use. 

Say there are 10 men, 10 women and 10 kids fighting the wights, if 5 men die but 9 women and 10 kids die, the 5 remaining men and 1 woman will have to fight 14 new wights.

If 10 men alone are fighting, even if half of them die, 5 vs 5 is a lot better than 6 vs 14. It has to worm its way into everything these days, unfortunately.Any person can do, but it would be a waste for an 18 year old man to do while a 10 year old girl fights. Making the weapons for war is a traditionally female task, for obvious reasons. Which once again sounds badass but ignores his point and doesn't prove that a 10 year old girl would be anything but a liability on a battlefield.Plus Arya still has the emotional vulnerabilities of a girl her age (or at least she did in earlier seasons). Arya is really bad ass but she's trying to be bad ass because she's still quite childish and that's what she wants. She spends hours practicing with a sword to become so bad ass.

Lyanna was just born bad ass? Instead of having a childish character who dreams of being a bad ass ninja type assassin, it's seems like childish writers who just kind of wedge in so cool lines because "oh ye that'll be cool"Also, Arya was not sitting in a hold with a Maester as a kid. She was down in the killing field fighting for survival. She got through Harrenhal under the Mountain, the riverlands when the lannisters ravaged them, etc, spend time with one of the fiercest warriors in Westeros _before_ joining the assassins.
> yet even she probably would not last in a fair fight against an armored swordsman, let alone against wights or walkers.

Ha, you say that now, but just wait until she's windmilling her way through the wight army, dual wielding needle and dark sister, as "fight song" plays in the background. 

Sorry...I just saw Suicide Squad last night and I'm not fully recovered from the hardcore feminist pandering and complete unlikely bad-ass heroine that was Harley Quinn.See the thing is is that the quote I put up there actually IS from the books, just modified for this context. Here's the original:

>"Beg all you like," said Ser Guyard the Green, "by rights it should be one of the seven who strikes the first blow."

>"It takes more than a pretty cloak to charge a shield wall," Randyll Tarly announced. "I was leading Mace Tyrell's van when you were still sucking on your mother's teat, Guyard."

Ser Guyard Morrigen is one of the finest swordsmen in Renly's army, and is one of Renly's Kingsguard. But he's young. He demands the right to lead Renly's van against Stannis, and Randyll, an older more experienced soldier, promptly tells him that charging a shield wall and commanding a van requires experience that Morrigen doesn't actually have.

Randyll is essentially calling out that Guyard might be bold and a fantastic fighter, but he's never actually experienced the what he's asking for. He's not really suited for such a task. Randyll on the other hand is as he's done it before. You want that experience, you can count on it.

Basically, **just because you speak loudly doesn't mean you know what you're doing.** There is a point where a more experienced person should be reminding the youth of their greater experience. Lyanna could rightfully call out Glover, but eventually he should tell her to fuck off and remind her that in some things she simply doesn't have the experience he does. He wouldn't actually just sit there and be chided, he's a great lord who has tons of experience that she's never dealt with and would remind her of that difference in knowledge.

For instance, Jon and Lyanna are both correct that it makes more sense to have both sexes fight than to limit yourself to only 50% of the population. But if EVERYBODY is fighting, then who is making the arrows? Who's making the food? Repairing the equipment? Running the sick bay? Etc. You cannot actually put everybody into the fighting as then logistically your army would quickly fall apart from all the mundane tasks no longer being done. A guy like Glover, who's an older more experienced lord, is the perfect person to point out that logistically you need to keep some portion of the population out of the fighting to ensure that your army actually can fight.

And like you said, as brave as Lyanna is for agreeing to fight alongside Glover and the other northerners, it won't change that she's not actually as beneficial on the battlefield as they are. They know what they're doing, she doesn't. If they charge a shield wall she's just going to bounce right off lol. She should put her ego aside and offer to help out somewhere where she can. She disparages "knitting by the fire", but as previously pointed out somebody needs to be doing that task. If nobody's making clothes then the army will just freeze.

Glover should've put her in her place, and told her to help out where she actually can be of use to their cause.Or you could be that asshole that bullied a little girl who had a good point...If anything that makes jon a blackfyre. He's not legitimate no matter how you look at it. Doesn't mean that his name is Stark. He'd just be a Targ bastard. In show world, Dany still has a better claim than he does, plus the army to match. Any claim to the North would be from his mother, which makes him a weaker blood candidate than Bran, Sansa, and Arya. And for show purposes, does it even matter much anymore? They already call him the King in the North. Furthermore, politics got him killed once already. It's doubtful he'd do much better in the South which has even more vicious players, where he has no allies and Dany to contend with. We know GRRM isn't intending for a storybook ending, so it's doubtful Jon will be king Westeros, and I doubt even D&D are going to even head that way. Valyrian steel has very distinct patterns and coloring. I expect they would, if they saw it unsheathed.It wouldn't hurt for her to ask, and I'd think Jon would be too honorable to want to keep it for himself. It's not just any sword. It's the Mormont family's ancestral sword. Jon would be kind of a jerk to want to keep it for himself. His position as king is pretty tenuous too. He's a bastard who was pretty much elected into power - I can't really imagine any Northerner to roll over easily on just "because the king said so." 


In any case, Brienne still has Oathkeeper right? Now *that* is an ancestral Stark sword, and I don't see an issue if Sansa asks for it to give to Jon. Sansa should know what it looks like - she was in KL when Joffrey gave it to Jaime. But whether D&D decide to even touch this plot point is anyone's guess.I doubt the 10 year old lord commander actually led the watch without a steward that ruled through him. Kid brains haven't developed certain crucial skills yet needed to do the job.She definitely looks 9 and is like 9 in the books. I never said that ruling at 14 is plausible either. Also there kind of is quite a psychological difference bewteen 12 and 14, especially if you have quite a mature 14 year old which Robb did seem to be.

Even if she was like 11/12, it would still be absolutely ridiculous.That's great then, a twelve year old is going to SLAY every grown man on a battle field. She's going to blaze through it like Jon Snow. No way she could ever be murdered by nearly every soldier.Actor's age =/= Character's Age =/= Book Character's age.


You're saying since an actor is close to the age of a book character its all good. Talk about a logical leap. I think the show said what her age was when Jon got the letter in Castle Black.It's not about education. It's about genetic development of the brain. Your brain gains certain abilities and skills throughout it's childhood that you simply don't have before that.

For example kids and younger teens lack the ability to think symbolicly. If you were to draw a circle on a whiteboard and say "just imagine this is a map of canada" as a basis to explain something about it, they'll be confused and constantly telling you it looks nothing like canada. They just can't really fill in that stuff for themselves. This is just an example of how their brains work differently and lack capability. Anyone who has decent knowledge about development in early teenagers will tell you that Lyanna Mormont is a ridiculous character that could never be real.In my country women who were farmers married around the age of 30. I heard this personally from a professor who specialized in historic demographics. 12 to 13 being the age when you were married is largely a myth. Sure, it did happen. But it was hardly a common practice.Twelve year olds making children in the past?Which history would that be?No it isn't. No matter what you feed it, the brain doesn't gain certain abilities before the age it gets them. Their brains simply aren't ready for it yet. They're still too early in their development, and that's 100% genetic.Yes it is just as far fetched. It's not about being raised a certain way, it's about a child's brain being too underdeveloped to be able to think like a ruler and make a ruler's decision. It's the 100% genetic problem of the brain not gaining very important abilities before a certain age. I doubt you'll find any rulers that young in history that ruled on their own without atleast a regent to rule for them, or someone standing behind them whispering them what to do, and doing even as much as a meh job.In Europe at least they served only as nominal monarchs ("minority") until they were 13-14 or so. She was the lord of Bear Island and committed her soldiers. She is nine years old. She did all that could've possibly been expected of her. Would you've expected Bran (had he not been crippled) to rush out against the Greyjoys?

And to your point about her being a hypocrite, clearly she wants to fight, but still needs to learn how. What more do you want?There was plenty he could fire back at her, D+D just gave up on writing the other Northern lords after Robett roasted Jon and Sansa. I also think they have trouble knowing how to respond to her. She's "just" a little girl and a "Lady" so they aren't able to respond in kind as they would if it were a grown Lord of a minor house because they have to be courteous. Except Olenna is (right now) de facto head of one of the most powerful houses in westeros and she is not a child, an old lady. Lady mormont is a girl child ruler of an insignificant houseIf it were a little boy, he would be the cliche where a child suddenly knows everything better than all the other characters and who delivers incredible insights, but lacks any depth or character development. That kind of character has been overdone by Hollywood for decades know. It's as if the writers never spend any time around real kids.And remember when there WAS a little lord in Season 2? Bran was a smart and decent kid who still made mistakes and acted childishly. That was so much more believable.> I have nothing against smart kids, but Lyanna is over-the-top. I'm probably one of the most SJW-types on this subreddit, and Lyanna just comes across as shitty pseudo-feminist pandering. 

God bless you for saying so.
And if a little boy behaved this way, he'd probably be considered annoying and whiny. They will admire her for choosing correctly when they didn't, but I can't imagine they'd accept a telling off from her. These are proud, fierce men, and they can't afford to be put down by a child. Realistically Lord Glover should have instantly gotten fired up instead of meekly accepting Lyanna Mormont's opinion.I've admitted to others this is a fair point, and it is...but talking down to older northern lords still seems like a stretch for a 9 year old girlSure, they don't have time to give the characters depth, but they do have time for unnecessary romance plots (Missandei x Greyworm), characters that sit in a room having conversations that don't advance or develop anything (pretty much every Tyrion scene with the aforementioned two in the last season) and the previous episode's highlight - a minute long montage of literal shit. Now THAT is important enough to keep.  i hate this reasoning. they did have time to go into more depth with new/existing characters but decided to shorten the seasons and speed-run to the end. I agree with this 100%. It's hard to do something of this scale with so few episodes left, I think overall they do a fantastic job given the scope.
But any other northern lords could have said her lines without breaking the reality of the world this takes place in. A 9 year old lady from a small house would never have this much credibility among Northern Lords; but it's cute and fans like it so here we are.

There's a lot of unnecessary girl power moments in GOT. Maybe D&D are trying to capitalize on the direction that things are going in Hollywood with all of the feminism and what not. In the books, Arya, Dany, Brienne etc aren't bad ass characters because they're women, they're oftentimes bad ass characters despite being women. I mean, how subtle should someone reminding the other houses that they didn't answer for the house the were sworn to be?she has 16 troops!D&D are all about fan service. They can't do subtle nuance. It's a shame that shownlies will never get to experience the moral complexity of the books, especially AFFC Seems like whenever a character or line makes a lot of social media buzz they try harder to create that in every episode, but it's never as fun or organic. Literally forced memes. 
I think the writers of Walking Dead have ruined their show in a similar way, the character Abraham had a couple funny one liners that got social media buzz so every episode with him after that he was just some cartoon spouting jokes they hoped we would make memes out of and tweet at each other. The fan service and catering to social media has turned my favorite shows into garbage.

On the bright side, I used to be afraid Game of Thrones would spoil the books but I am confident that they are no longer the same story at all. If this is the only conclusion we get that would be so sad.I agree entirely that DnD can't do subtlety and seem to abhor complexity. The show feels like it's now written to deliver one-liners. Think about how many minutes it takes to "consume" one television episode,  then think about how many minutes it takes to read one or more chapters that describe a similar scene,  or an equivalent narrative purpose. 

Television is a wildly different medium from literature.  Not only that,  but the target demographic is also quite different. 

With those two differences in mind,  it makes sense for writers of the show to make different choices for their story than GRRM would make for his. The show is written such that she is given chances to sassily call out the old grumpy male Lords of the North. 

The show threw Lord Manderly's whole "the North remembers" thing out for the sake of the existence of Lyanna's character (also Arya's genuinely satisfying Frey revenge scene, I suppose), and now instead of the Northern Lords being honorable and pragmatic in the face of the existential threat of the White Walkers, they are obstructionist and traditionalist purely for the sake of it, but also listen to the little girl when she tells them off and meekly back down whenever she opens her mouth.

Lyanna is always right because the people she is arguing against are written to be wrong; which is obviously how all arguments work in fiction, except here it's pointlessly diverging from the previous depictions of the Northmen and also from the book's depiction of them, all for the sake of muh gurl power.It's the fault of fans as well. I always groan when people start overhyping characters like Oberyn or now Lyanna. Dorne happened because of it, Lyanna's possible lack of complexity happened because of it.

Fans, just shut up every once in a while, thank you, and stop hyping things too much.

And that thing about subtlety... It's almost necessary to write a TV show this way, because many casual watchers are hopeless fools. They tried to be a bit more subtle with the reveal of Jon's mother and what happens? "Omg wtf, Ned fucked his sister? Jon is a product of incest????". Argghhh. We shouldn't complain about the hamfisting too much, because we are hardcore fans and know everything. It's very hard to be subtle with us. And at least I don't have to explain as many things to my casual watcher friends.

Honestly, if this sub wrote the show, it would be a nonsensical mess nobody outside this subreddit could understand.[deleted]These are great. Can't believe I hadn't seen them before, thanks!The scene in Winterfell was Jon holding court with lords and ladies of the North being present. Why would Brienne have anything to say and who would care if she said it? House Tarth did not rise to need of the Starks; it did not come to their aid - Brienne wasn't even present at the battle. Royce barely spoke (and Baelish didn't at all) and the Vale is the primary reason Jon is now King. 

Brienne is a sword sworn to Sansa; in the eyes of the North, she's nothing more.George would do that and it would wander off into a pointless tangent that has nothing to do with the main plot, and ends up unresolved and abandoned. Except I believe she did have a full and realistic character arc... and it's not been much different from the book. What's not going to happen now are pointless conversations that don't move the story along.[deleted]Explained what exactly? One possible other scenario in which Glover would have been mad? He was humbled because a 12y/o girl and her house supported the Starks in a clearly losing battle and he didn't despite his oaths, and she reminded him of that. Likely they'll all die regardless Whatever your thoughts on feminism today, Westeros could certainly use a good dose of it.Why is no one mentioning that? Sending Lyanna to a battle field with grown up men isn't empowering, it is straight up murder.It's basically this scene from 300

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eRtemWv_5cc

If she cannot properly fight beside her comrades, then she's a liability who shouldn't be there. But there's no reason why she can't help the army by bringing the soldiers food, clearing the dead, tending the wounded, etc.

Not everybody needs to be a fighter to ensure a battle is won.>Who's making the food? Repairing the equipment? Running the sick  bay? Etc.

Give me twenty good men.I'd be sorta surprised if the gender-balance of the population was split even in Westoros at the current point of the show. At least for places like the North and Riverlands where the population of males above like, ten, is probably dramatically reduced from warfare. It's probably a big ol' clam bowl up North.You're applying modern day emotions to a medieval scenario. They wouldn't be mad he bullied her, they'd laugh at him for not bitching her outShit like that is not what people on Westeros would think. I'm sure they'd go impudent whelp needed to be muzzled rather than experienced asshole who 'bullied'. Bullied? People die in this world and get mocked endlessly for being bastard children. This is soft af.You think Jon isn't going to end up King or something or other by the end? That this whole time they've built him up to be nothing?He won't be a Targ bastard, but rather the offspring of two big Houses joined. He'll have the benefits of both as Joffrey did with Lannisters and Baratheons.

Dany has claim, sure, but she still has to take the throne back. She can't just waltz in and be given it. It's true that Bran would have the strongest claim to Winterfell, but Jon is (supposedly) setup as a leader and worthy to command armies. He is the one the Houses chose b/c they saw the most potential in, all while a true born Stark sat next to him.

The second part of your statement is like what I was going to say, which is merely just guessing. I can't say anymore how it will end as you, but if I had to guess I'd say it is looking like it'll be Jon & Dany together on the throne. At least their roads seem to be the most focused and headed that way.She has never seen the sword, though. Mormont was on the wall for a while.But that just means she'd recognize it was Valyrian Steel. How again would she know it used to be Jeor Mormont's?I highly doubt Lyanna has ever seen Longclaw. So she probably wouldn't even know it's the Mormont sword.But Jon might be on the train of thought of "fuck your pride we need the valyrian steel to kill the white walkers. You can have the sword back if we live through this"i think at this point the north is really just looking at anyone for leadership.

Ironically the white walkers help solidify Jons throne. You dont want to start a coup when marvel zombies are at your doorstep.You make a good point about Oathkeeper, and I'd like to see how that issue unfolds. But there's a big difference between the two.

Ice was taken from the Stark family. Brienne should have no problem giving it back. Hell, she even tried to give it back to Jaime, so it's not like she's desperate to keep it. But Longclaw was given to Jon by Jeor himself. Even if he didn't consult the she-bears back home before doing so, Lyanna asking for it back would make the Mormonts indian givers.You bleed, you breed. It's true for animals and it was true for us. Two thousand years ago you got betrothed in single digits and were an adult ready for marriage when you first bled, and did so very soon after. Sometimes before.

A thousand years ago wasn't much different, and two hundred years ago 13 was the norm. We're animals, and the period is sexual maturity, and that's when all animals begin mating.That would our own history. Up until about 150 years ago, 13-14 girls were married off pretty quick. She isn't doing it on her own. They have shown that she has people. She was raised with a certain ideology (the crux of it being the wall and white walker threat as paramount importance) and you basically see that in every decision she has shown. Well, the actress who plays her is 12, so I'm not sure why we keep calling her nine and acting like she's so far from maturity while simultaneously saying 13 is mature.Yes, her soldiers fought and died for her, but she did not participate during BotB. She was not even with Davos at the rear to watch the battle if they want to paint badass character and to match how much she talks with actions. I guess I have problem with over-competent 9 year olds Ahhh gotcha. You know better and D+D are idiots. It adds to their shame and why they can't speak up. Not only is this little girl verbally undressing them, but she is 100% right in doing so. 

This little girl was more honorable and brave then them. (Before you read the rest of the comment, I just need to say that I meant to stop myself after the first sentence, but then I got carried away. )

You're probably right about that, but at least it wouldn't be a lazy attempt at creating a "strong female character". If there were a little boy lord whose only lines were wise-beyond-his-years aphorisms, I don't think that the writers would expect him to become a meme. Lyanna is supposed to make you want to go "Tell 'em, Lya! GRRRL POWER" and tweet about how much you love her. And because of the slightly political nature of her role (in that she's supposed to be a subversion of Westeros's old guy patriarchy in a show that regularly has its portrayal of women criticized), it just comes off as cheap pandering. I think the same went for a lot of "empowered" female characters in season six (in particular: Dany bulldozing the Khals, Ellaria+Sand Snakes killing Doran so "weak men will never rule Dorne again!", etc.) 

I realize that I might sound like one of the butthurt MRAs who think that feminists want to ruin video games by taking away boob armor and instating a matriarchy. I'm not. I just hate lazy writing, especially when it seems like it's done to score "good ally" points and spawn Buzzfeed posts with titles like "Seven times Lyanna Mormont made you go YASSSS QUEEN"

I should go to bed.

The women on Bear Island are pretty atypical compared to most of Westeros since they are raised as warriors. Lyanna has been raised to fight from birth so it's not that implausible that she's willing to be more confrontational than most children. Exactly. And they had time for Ed Sheeran, but no time for a bit of development for Lyanna Mormont?They did have time?

The network executives who ultimately decide how many seasons to fund and how many episodes will be in each season aren't the ones who write the episodes. Yeah, I basically agree.

I won't say "but" because everything said before that is horseshit. ;) I would say, sort of politically speaking, that Lyanna Mormont is probably thought of in a favorable position because she gambled on House Stark and won, while other northern houses did not. So perhaps these lords are not willing to talk down to her in front of the King or they may be reminded of that again by Jon and/or Sansa.This, but unironically. Ehhhh, I wouldn't blame TWD on Abraham, they've screwed that show up way beyond one character. They stick to their Episode 1 - stuff happens, Mid-season - stuff happens, Season Finale - stuff happens, every other episode - nothing happens, script way too much and the show is just predictable and boring. The Glen stuff, man, that was garbage. You tease his death twice in the same season, only to end up killing him, but you split ***that*** in between the finale and the premiere... Those writers aren't just bad, they're really bad, but they're like that Asian kid from American Idol a couple years back. They're awful, but everyone's been telling them they're great for so long, that they've actually started to believe it, so now they think whatever they do is amazing, and when the fans don't agree, they give you the "You'll see what happens" line. Well, I waited all season to "see what happens", and I saw a lot of nothing. 

Jesus, sorry for ranting. Yes, this is all true. But the first seasons still had more sublety than those that came after season four. If it had been this way from the start no one would say that, but the show has changed drastically since season four.

So I don't understand why people keep making this argument, it's as if they haven't noticed all the changes that happened.Most fans of the show can't or won't be willing to go back and watch a scene a couple of times to understand it, thus why they kinda have to beat the audience over the head with certain things. It sucks sometimes when the rest of us would prefer subtlety but they gotta please the masses.It's also that these kind of characters draw a special kind of person. Not just the casual watchers, but those that fall for this kind of cliche. They'll be the loudest and most obnoxious, creating the most memes and probably therefore catching the attention of DnD.

>Honestly, if this sub wrote the show, it would be a nonsensical mess nobody outside this subreddit could understand.

I never read the books and I had to watch the first season twice before I could even remember all the characters and make sense of what was happening, but I'd much rather have it that way than blunt stereotypes like Lyanna Mormont.Good thing you mentioned Oberyn, because he's the perfect example to prove DnD's lack of subtlety compared to GRRM. If you're a book reader, you know that Oberyn was never openly shown as being bisexual. He's IMPLIED, behind his back, to fuck men, in addition to women, among doing other things that are considered dirty by Westerosi standards. But we never see him do that, nor do we ever hear him admit so. It's just a tiny detail amidst his other character traits that make the full picture.

In the show, however? DnD took that single line and transformed it into a bunch of scenes where Oberyn either engages in sexual activities with a man, or tells everyone he meets about how he doesn't "choose sides when it comes to love". I'm fairly certain he spends more of his screentime in bed with a guy than with the love of his life Ellaria Sand, which is just sad. Even in Season 6, when they mention Oberyn post-mortem, the other characters STILL don't forget to remind the audience one last time that Oberyn fucked men as well. As if that is the most important character trait of him. So you see how DnD work. They took a book character who was this brilliant fighter, a charming, but dangerous personality, well versed in many arts and experiences, who also may or may not be bisexual, and turned him into a show character, whose primary emphasized trait is that he's bisexual, oh, and he also happens to do a bunch of cool things on the side. 

Now we arrive to Lyanna Mormont. Season 6 happened, the audience loved her, lots of memes were made about her, so DnD got all red eyed at the prospect of doing fanservice and wrote her a bunch of scenes for the opening episode of Season 7 and (I'm presuming) for the remainder of the season, where she will do more of the same and from now on her sole role will be verbally shutting down grown-ups with increasingly cheesy lines, instead of, you know, expanding her character and giving her a broader role. Because DnD wouldn't know subtlety if it shot them with a crossbow while Rains of Castamere were playing. I wish TV in general didn't so often pander to the lowest common denominator. This show is based on a book series that is written in a very subtle, intelligent fashion, yet bc of the show's booming popularity, it has drawn the attention of viewers who would never be able to get through the books. That leaves D&D in an odd place and seems to cause the dumbing down of the show that we've gotten at times. How did Dorne happen because of Oberyn? I feel like Dorne happened because Dorne was in the books and they couldn't cut it out entirely without bookreaders being mad.

So they made it shitty instead.Oberyn was understandable. No one could have foreseen how shitty the Sand Snakes and Dorne was to beIts not my fault the writers are morons who think fan service is the way to go. Fans can love a character or be excited by stuff, its the point - fan is short for fanatic.

Its DnD's job to be not be a pair of incompetent buffoons who try and gratify to the fans and ruin the entire point. Don't blame someone who likes a character for that character being ruined, blame the ruiners.> It's the fault of fans as well.

Disagree, the Lyanna problem was already apparent during Season 6, in episodes that had been scripted & shot before fans even heard about her. D&D were doing this with her character before she had even a second of airtime.All aboard the Hype Train! Lyanna is the Prince who was Promised, confirmed. Fans are fans, it's their 'job' to be excited about what they like. And it's the writer's job to not to be swayed by the fans' excitement and not ruin what they liked in the first place.> i doubt GRRM could write a TV show that's half as enjoyable

he has multiple times>i doubt GRRM could write a TV show that's half as enjoyable.

GRRM written episodes of GoT were consistently good. :PRLM claims another victim. Best channel on YouTube.She's a prime example of a woman being able to fight. I don't mean she should have barged in with a counter argument, it wouldn't have been appropriate or in Brienne's character. But Jon or Sansa could have used Brienne as an example as to why the woman could be just as valuable on the battlefield. Instead we got the sassy young girl with her speech that just ended the argument Agreed.  You don't see people complaining that Strong Belwas is just a gluttonous, dull, murderhobo.  That's what makes him fun.The Unsullied are literally trained for several years though man. They have like, a couple months, maybe. 

Idk what you're doin with all these ellipses but it's kinda weirdIt's pretty simple, you migrate the populous of the North to Southern regions. White Harbor and the Neck are some of the least destroyed areas in the North. You don't need to worry about food scarcity since all the food for the season has been harvested and stored already. You're either going to starve or you aren't at this point, moving won't change that. Should the White walkers push further south, you move further south too.


We've already seen how quickly wights can move. A child wight is more useful than a child soldier by an order of magnitude. Gender dimorphism doesn't seem like it'll be a problem for wights either. You'll be killing droves of people just for them to turn around and become better fighters for your enemies. 

* **Die and don't kill any wights**: You just gave them 1 more soldier for free

* **Die and kill 1 wight**: You replace the wight you killed. You still hurt the war effort because of the time and equipment wasted on you.


* **Die and kill 2 or more wights:** Congratulations, you actually contributed to the war effort.


Which camp do you think a large majority of this peasant levy is going to fall into?


And that's not even looking at the logistics of it. Even arming a completely unarmed force like this with spears and boiled leather would be a massive task, much less actually properly outfitting them.


The right call is to bring all the trained, equipped soldiers you have left and to try to punch through and kill the White Walkers. Fighting them with attrition and mass numbers only works to their strengths. It seems like Jon learned nothing watching an entire wildling village get resurrected which is why he's listening to Lyanna.


Jesus what a terrible strategy. It's pretty clear the writer's put 0 thought into how you would actually fight something like the White Walkers.That's no good reason to make the task harder than it has to be.

By the way, that's not the way to bet with these sorts of things. The White Walkers can't have a total victory, at least I would bet they won't. Eh, I don't think slutwalks, whining about cultural appropriation, or shitting on people for being white, straight, or male would much improve the situation. The people of Westeros need unity, not artificial division.Wow, that movie hasn't aged well.Yeah but in that same vein, if the women/children have absolutely no way to protect themselves, the men do have to worry more about protecting their homes. At least if they can hold a sword or use a bow, the men can have a little hope that if shit goes down, their women and children may have a prayer of keeping themselves from dying. Essentially, everyone needs to be ready for the coming storm, because those who are weak or unaware will die much like those farmers the Hound buried.That's true. Maybe she wouldn't, but her Maester should recognize it. Valyrian steel swords are incredibly rare and valuable. It would be a gross oversight if people (the maesters) haven't documented what the swords look like and who owns which.What's an Indian giver?


Well the situation with Longclaw was that Jeor took it because it "rightfully" belonged to Lord of Bear Island who was at the time Jorah, and Jeor kind of broke some rules to bring it with him to the Wall. As one could say the Lannisters stole Ice from the Starks, Jeor stole Longclaw from its rightful owner and was never his to give to Jon. And Jon should return it to its rightful owner, the Lord of Bear Isle. Of course, not having a real concept of property rights makes the situation more complicated so we're just wading into theory here. *I* believe Longclaw was never Jeor's to give and that a family sword should stay with its family, whereas some others may believe whoever is in possession of it at the time has the right to give it away. 


I mean, the Queen can't just abdicate, take St. Edward's Crown with her and then sell it to Elon Musk. One couldn't really make the argument that the Crown was given to Elon Musk by Elizabeth herself and therefore should stay with him. And I doubt anyone would call the rest of the Royal family or the British public "Indian givers" (whatever that means) for wanting the Crown back. 

This is blatantly false, and is one of the most absurd myths about the Middle Ages. At no point in human history was it even remotely common for children in their early teens having children. Even marriages at this age were rare. Children would be betrothed at this point, and after a few years would eventually be married. Not until their early twenties would they begin having children. The reason bing that the risk of death in childbirth skyrockets at a young age. Stop talking out of your ass.Thats quite false, it was usually late teens and early twenties for arranged marriages, rarely that earlyNo they weren't .There were occasions when they did, but it was only for political and economical reasons and they didn't consume the marriage until they were around 20 years of age. Back then there  was no modern medicine as we have today and girls giving birth in their teens would have a high chance of dying and losing their child.Early age marriages were not common at all,even as I said it before there were occasions when they did happen but only for making alliances.Because Lyanna's age is 9, regardless of her actor's age. And the difference between 9-13 is enormous, puberty and all.As a former child actor,  it's normal for children to play characters many years younger than they are in real life.  This is because labor laws restrict the number of hours a child can work --- babies can only work a fraction of an hour, and the allowed "working time" increases with age.  

Hiring an older actor to play younger makes financial sense. 13 to 14 is actually lowballing it, most regencies lasted until very late teens or early twenties.  I think Catelyn actually even talks about it that Robb should actually have a regent but it just doesn't happen because no adult Starks were there when he called the banners and he was close to the age that the regency would have ended as well.  Seeing as they couldn't think of a single defense for a battle hardened soldier of a well populated landlocked county on why exactly a young girl who has never been in a battle who lives on a sparsely populated island has no right to question his choices, yeah, they are idiots. You left out making Asha a warmongering lesbian to show how manly and tough she is. i'm sure the network executives ultimately decide how many seasons/episodes, but it was the showrunners who wanted to have the shortened seasons.

https://variety.com/2016/tv/news/game-of-thrones-end-date-season-8-1201752746/Totally agree with you! 

Also ... you could try "However..." It's a good point, and you just won with the 'horseshit' lineLol no apology needed. I just gave Abraham as one example of what they did to the show. It's definitely guilty of worse. Just hacky and sad. :'(Highly disagree on what you said about Obreyn. Sure, his bisexuality was clearer on the show, but it was far from his main trait. He was charming, dangerous and clearly a good fighter. A very well written character for the show, and you are honestly the first person I've seen critizing the show character. IMO Oberyn was much more interesting in the show, in the books he just appeared and then died. And TV is different in that regard, you can't be subtle the same way you can be in the books. Anyway, his bisexuality produced some funny scenes on the show, like Loras-Oberyn interaction. Speaking of Loras, that's a character whose dominant trait was his sexuality on the show, not Oberyn. Replace every "Oberyn" with "Loras" in your comment and I agree with you, his character sucked.

Agree about Lyanna though. But she's just a minor side character, they don't really have much screentime or reason to develop her character further.Completely agree. I almost don't like how popular it's gotten. My family won't watch it with me anymore because all I say is "the book version of this is 100x better" or something like that every five minutes. no one likes nerdrage>12y + 3x = 6  
  
whats up with that?
Lyanna and the treatment of nearly every character since are the result of the outrage about Sansa's rape. When was the last time we saw a real depiction of how shitty it is to be a woman in this time period? Hell, what female character isn't leading the good life right now? The worst off I can think is Gilly who is living a comfortable life in the citadel. Yes, GRRM was setting up TWOW to have a lot more female leaders and rulers but there was still stuff like Yara being imprisoned, Brienne being led to death/torture, Sansa being under Littlefingers thumb, etc.

Its evolved into this ridiculous female power fantasy and nearly every female character has had their storyline bleached, in no small part because of Sansa's rape. Every scene with her feels like what /r/thathappened  would look like if Westeros had social media. Davos was half a heartbeat from starting round of applause and handing her crisp a $100% dollar bill.Yeah, do that and fans still complain. "Omg wtf, I hyped this future plotline so much and it never happened the way I wanted it to happen. D&D ruin everything." If I had a nickel for every time I've heard that on this sub... , written in another way, of course.> [deleted]

checks outAs others have said, Brienne is epitomized by her uniqueness (in the south).  Bear Island is a traditional home to warrior women that the North has full familiarity with (even without Lyanna, her older sisters and mother are great examples of this). 

For the North (outside of Bear Island), the greater issue is that to arm women is to treat them like Wildlings.  Above the wall, feudalism does not exist, and neither do its social structures that make the assumption that women cannot serve or fight.  Bear Island is a far better example for Northerners to show that those who are in a feudal society as their own can still arm women and not lose their social structure.  Brienne, not only is a Southerner, but is rumored to be a Kingslayer, Oathbreaker, turncloak, and a general renegade - even though she claims loyalty to Sansa.

You would never expect Bronn to speak up at a council meeting -he's a knight, and knows his place.  Brienne is the same here.  She may have noble birth, but her standing is as an individual pledged to a noble lady, not as the head of her own house, with lands attached.  Lyanna, as a noble lady, has weight, no matter her stature.> She's a prime example of a woman being able to fight.

Brienne is just like Gregor Clegane:  A physical freak of nature that can't be used as an example of anything because they lie so far outside of the statistical mean.  This is a good point but you also have to remember none of them have ever really seen Brienne fight outside of Sansa. She didn't participate in the battle."murderhobo"!!It's not like they can just push infinitely South tho but I see your point.

And to be fair they aren't training them to fight White Walkers, just the wightsAnother points, troops have better morale when they are defending something behind them than watching things they are defending dying around them and killing more their former friends and family. The double amount of numbers doesn't matter if it just breaks the will of the army.That depends on how long the maester was on Bear Island. He could have been placed their after The sword found it's way to the wall. Jeor didn't "steal" Longclaw. When Jeor left to join the Night's Watch, he left Longclaw behind at Bear Island. Jorah had it for a time, and when he left Bear Island, he left Longclaw behind. Maege Mormont then sent the sword to Jeor. One could argue that by doing this she was giving up House Mormont's claim to Longclaw. In any case, it was now Jeor's to Dow THE as he pleased. He would have most likely had it returned to Bear Island or had it given to the ext Lord Commander upon his death, but he chose to give it to Jon. Jon is by all rights the legitimate owner of Longclaw.Yeah, since when is "the actress is twelve" an indicator that the character is too? Does that mean Jojen was 20? Lyanna is onviously meant to look very young, younger than twelve.Yes... this article says they were considering it.   But it doesn't say who gave them that option.  

Bottom line in the entertainment industry is that the people funding the project have the final say.   The showrunners may have a preference,  but they must choose out of the options given by the people who control the finances --- otherwise,  the money dries up and the project goes nowhere.    

>To live up to the standard they’ve set for themselves — and fans — Weiss and Benioff said they can’t continue to produce 10 episodes of the show in the show’s usual 12- or 14-month time frame. “It’s crossing out of a television schedule into more of a mid-range movie schedule,” Weiss said.

Read between the lines: it's all about budget.   :(haha :)Eh, true, Loras is an even worse example, although I will not relent in saying that Oberyn's constant flaunting of his sexuality was a needless addition by the show writers which accentuates their lack of subtlety.

Also, I *categorically* disagree with your assessment that TV can't be subtle in the same way as the books are. Season 1 would absolutely prove you wrong. It is full of great, subtle moments, which the latter seasons sorely lack. Coincidentally, the lack of such subtlety began when DnD stopped drawing inspiration from the books and took the show in their own fanfictiony direction. In fact, I would argue that in certain cases, TV has to be more subtle than the book, simply because in the book, we hear the POV character thoughts directly, even when they are not speaking, while on screen we do not, so TV has to rely on subtler way to express the characters' feelings, like facial expressions, body language, etc. Something that was abundant in the early seasons. Hell, that added layer of subtlety and complexity was what got me, and, I'm sure, many viewers into watching and loving the series in the first place. Alas, it's, for the most part, gone now. Yeah, I have to admit that's just you being a dick :P I prefer the book to show too but even so....xD 100x better? Gotta wonder why you watch it then?

I wouldn't watch it near you either.Well that's just called being an asshole. xD

And what book version? There has been no book version since the beginning of season 6.It has infinite solutions for x and yY=1
X=-2It's called "algebra".Thank you... I've seen the flair before and didn't get it either. I hate to use the term, but this is the result of "SJW culture". In other words, rampant political correctness. TV is absolutely being whitewashed by it, just look at the Emmys this year and last. Bill Nyes gender fluidity episode was nominated for "OUTSTANDING WRITING" which is just completely laughable. 

Anything that empowers girls/women or gay people, fights against gender norms, promotes diversity, and takes shots at straight white men is applauded and proclaimed "good" and anyone who disagrees is too afraid to say so or just doesn't find it worth it to stir up the trouble.

I'm a liberal dude myself, but I can still recognize that it has gotten pretty out of control.I hated that little girl power moment with arya and the Frey wife. Arya has zero reason to think that girl wasn't complicit in the whole red wedding unless you shoehorn in a modern, progressive idea of how fucked up arranged marriages are. I'm going to respectfully disagree here. I don't think the writers care about the fan outrage. Otherwise they would never have done the scene with Sansa in the first place, after all the outrage to previous rape scenes, such as Daenerys and Drogo and Cersei and Jaime. I think, what really happened is two fold. Firstly, you're totally right that GRRM is setting up TWOW to have more females in power and the show is simply following the books in a much less subtle, much more abrupt, obtuse fashion (as it has since it initially outpaced the books). It isn't Sansa's rape that marks the change we are seeing, it is the fact that we're beyond the books now. Secondly, I think the show is attempting to find moments of joy and levity within all the darkness, as it always has. Just as Tyrion, Bronn and Pod were providing a lot of funny/happy moments in the early seasons, fiesty little Lyanna and lovestruck Tormund are providing more light moments, now that the focus has shifted Northward. People can choose to see this as fan service, but I think the writers are just exploring character interactions the way they always have. I don't see anything in recent episodes as being much different than some of Tyrion's lines and antics in the early seasons. Of course, everyone is entitled to their own opinion, that's just the way I see it:)> Its evolved into this ridiculous female power fantasy and nearly every female character has had their storyline bleached, in no small part because of Sansa's rape. 

Yeah, I totally agree. I commented about this above, but a lot of the current atmosphere in tv/movies right now is about female empowerment for whatever reason. Hollywood was almost unilaterally behind a Hillary presidency. Things are weird. You can still recognise what's good and what isn't and write accordingly. D&D not recognising that going overboard with Lyanna's 'coolness' isn't good doesn't mean that they shouldn't have done it, it just means they shouldn't have made it annoying. It's like Peter Jackson with Legolas - he saw that the fans loved Legolas' stunts in LotR, so he made so much of them in the Hobbit it became completely ridiculous.Isn't she kind of well-known though? I mean, all you have to tell people is how she was part of Renly's Rainbow guard and beat Loras Tyrell in the melee.If the White Walkers have pushed all the way down to Dorne, I'm pretty sure its game over at that point. 


And White Walkers being good doesn't make wights bad. Fresh wights are shown to be [extremely dangerous and formidable](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M2TlSM-2SyI). you can read between the lines and think whatever you want, buddy. i'll stick to what d&d have been saying in interviews for the last year and a half.:PPPP XXDXDXDDDDDDD how's being fucking 14 treating you, moron?No... x = 1, y = 0.25 Congratulations, you pointed out one of the literally infinite amount of solutions.  
  
That's not the point.whut's algebra, preshus?Well, she needed somebody to tell others what went down. That's the way I saw it. 

I understand why Arya would think this girl wasn't involved in the Red Wedding. Walder Frey's wife at the time (who Cat killed) really didn't seem to know what the fuck was going on. And Walder Frey does not seem like the type to tell women about his schemes.Wasnt the girl Frey's new wife who was the replacement after the old one got killed in the red wedding? It's kind of reasonable to think she may not have been part of it if she wasnt his wife at the time. >Otherwise they would never have done the scene with Sansa in the first place, after all the outrage to previous rape scenes, such as Daenerys and Drogo and Cersei and Jaime.

Neither of those had nearly as much outrage as Sansa did. I didn't even know people were upset about the Drogo scene until earlier this week. 



I agree with everything you said, I just also stand by the fact that show-runners are very malleable and will change things to better please an audience/get better ratings. It strikes me as a tad naive to just assume that the most heavily criticized rape scene in the series just coincidentally coincided with every female character in the show seeing a massive uptick in their quality of life in the next season as well as the violence against women/rapes being very toned down.  
That's a perfect example- riding a shield down a flight of stairs while shooting orcs with a bow is one thing, but literally defying gravity by jumping off of floating bricks is another. Remember Catelyns reaction to that melee? About them playing at war? I don't think that would necessarily impress the northerners.

Now saving Sansa from 6 bolton men would certainly garner her respectI mean they'll have to take out Cersei if they want to go that far south. Final battle probably occurs somewhere in the North I imagine or in the RiverlandsWill do, buddy! :)Well done, you know big words! Your maester must not have taught you very wellProbably the most Walder Frey thing Arya did as Walder Frey, was telling his wife he wasn't going to waste good wine on a woman.

That and kill a lot of people in his own home.Which is why I'm really not worried about the refugees being pinned against the Southern Sea.Prick
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (No Spoilers) thread.  This scope covers NO story elements of ASOIAF or "Game of Thrones" per [Rule 3.3](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules).  Any discussion of the story of the books or the show must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Main) or (Spoilers Published).

Threads about r/asoiaf (meta topics) will be removed at moderator discretion.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Mythical astronomy of ice and fireHistory of Westeros and Radio WesterosWe have had [several threads](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/search?q=podcast&restrict_sr=on&sort=relevance&t=week) on this question recently, which you may want to check out in addition to any answers crows offer here.

It might also help if you say something about what kinds of podcasts you like.  There are tons to choose from!I think the whole thing would come down to which parts of Westeros would develop the manufacturing base to produce firearms. The Iron Islands, given their iron deposits, poor agricultural production, and extensive sailing capabilities, will pretty much own the Industrial Age if it can get its hands on coal in any large amount. 

Now as far as military power goes, dragons are still dragons. They will be supreme until the world develops heat seeking missiles (or, at least, anti-aircraft guns). 

Now, I'm not sure about the early Gunpowder age, but Dorne, and Highgarten will probably turn into backwaters once the Industrial Age moves into full swing, as all depend on agriculture. The North probably does okay, as the inhabitants will be more likely to embrace industry (since their agriculture is pretty much crap during winter). The Reach may follow suit, but I don't know what the mineral resources of the area are.

Militarily, the man-at-arms and knights will still have some role to play (for instance, the Polish Winged Hussars were still effective up to the 18th Century), but infantry will become more and more important. As will artillery, of course. Armor will become heavier and heavier (to stop bullets), and then will be abandoned entirely as it simply becomes too heavy to wear. 

The Riverlands might do fairly well as it sits over trade routes. I can see the Twins becoming more important as it becomes the chief conduit of industrial goods from north to south, and a conduit of agricultural goods from south to north. 

The Targaryans may be able to hold power (though there will be fragmentation) depending on how they respond to the change in wealth base. If they accept the mercantile classes with open arms, then they may be able to hold power. 

Braavos, of course, should do fine. The Citadel and the Maesters, on the other hand, will not like the gunpowder age all that much, as people will start searching for knowledge outside of the maesters' control.

I would note some religious strife but the Church of the Seven is pretty much out of the picture for the time being, and the Old Gods are flexible enough to support a change in wealth base.I can imagine that with the advent of gunpowder, knights/calvaries will cease to be useful and castles be pointless. The BIGGEST thing is that guns need almost NO training. A villager kills as easily as a trained knight. This means that sooner or later, populism will take hold as those who think that the upper class is being unjust now have the means to exert power.

At this point, I see two paths: The Eastern way, or the Western way. Either people will start to see themselves as "Riverlanders", "Northerners", "Dornishmen" and less as "Westerosi", or they'll start to reach back to a unified mythologized "Targaryan" past and try to re-unify the continent. 

I think this will depend heavily on whether there is vertical integration or how the "ancien regime" will continue to stifle/divide the people.For dragons to still be a force in westeros in the gunpowder era...all you have to do is mine the Chinese and celtic legends of dragons as well as tolkiens


In both those legends dragons were magically enhanced and in the celtic case they were beside the gods

Also in tokiens universe the dragons are so powerful that godlike beings fear them

If you use these mythologies than a Targaryen dynasty is still dominateWith gunpowder, sieges are futile because you can blow holes in a castle wall and charge. Thus, war will probably turn into who can buy the best army and navy, as most wars will be resolved by one massive army defeating another massive army. So, you have the Lannisters and the Tyrells in prime position. Lannister have the biggest army, but Tyrells have more crops. They will probably form the right and left political wing.

This would spur an arms race, as the lords would buy maesters to create more deadly weapons. Basically, opening a can of worms into pre-modern firearms and weapons. Education would be promoted to create more engineers, scientists, etc. "Maester" would probably dissolve into a common word used for an educated person.

With more technology, ships would travel farther, and you could see colonialism. Sothoryos could have valuable spices, similar to Europe colonizing Africa and Asia in the spice trade.

***

> As Euron said, the Iron Islands are rocks covered in seabird shit. But with the advent of gunpowder, that becomes a bit more valuable. Are they more prosperous? Or did another power colonize them?

I would think that the Lannisters would eventually colonise the Iron Islands and use it as a naval base guarding the coastline.

***

>Certain areas seem less likely to stick together. Specifically the Reach and Riverlands seem like they'd be fractured due to political infighting and weak ruling houses 

It is quite likely. But hard times create hard men, and you could get charismatic leaders.

***

>Targaryans - are they still around? In the absence of dragons, it seems unlikely they'd be able to hold the 7 kingdoms together, and if they had them, do guns equalize that, or are they still kings of the battlefield?

If dragons are completely out of the picture, then there is no United Kingdoms of Westeros. But if dragons are there, and gunfire comes in after Aegon's conquest, you can assume that someone will design a weapon that plucks dragons out of skies.

***

>Any towns that seem likely to become cities to you? Cities that grow larger? Areas of the map ripe for a new city to pop up?

I imagine with better technology, population will explode, and new cities will crop up in every kingdom, especially in the South. The North will see more port cities on the East Coast, where trade can flourish.  Since it has quite a harsh climate, cities in the middle of the North might not flourish because of blocked roads in Winter and lack of nutrition. Karhold, Widow's Watch and the Fingers seem good spots to trade with Essos.

***

>Aside from the Great Spring Sickness, we don't hear alot about plagues in Westeros, but an increasing (and increasingly urban) population would make ideal conditions for one (or several) and they have historically accelerated societal change IRL. What, if any, occur and what changes because of them?

I guess with technology improving, plagues will be less effective than in a purely medieval setting.If he put other lords in charge of those houses, the people will not be loyal to the new lords. All that will cause if further violence and death which is what he is trying to avoid. They are heirs, it is their right. 

It's a time of war, all houses will be led by the liege lord/king anyway. 

Otherwise they will be surrounded by people helping them. Lyanna Mormont was flanked by adults when we met her, not five year old cousins.

Be realistic. 

They'll have stewards doing the actual leading. Keeping the families in power preserves the loyalty of all the people there. Those children will be at their Hold, meanwhile their soldiers will be at Jon's disposal.

Installing new families in those holds would just waste resources and men, plus plant the seeds of discontent among Jon's followers.

He did exactly the right thing. Now is not the time to worry about politics, Winter is here, now is the time for survival.Weren't the children already in line to be heads of the families? I assumed that he picked the children because they were the rightful heirs and already in charge. Which means that they were probably already surrounded by people helping them lead. Jon wasn't selecting them to lead, though, he was giving them castles to defend.

He picked the children because they would look up to him and likely be a stronger bond for a longer period of time.

My question for that scene was which families did Sansa want to reward? What are her plans? Would she have selected Littlefinger as a reward? Or is being on the front lines a punishment?They will be at their hold, and how sound will their decisions be?  Will they listen to their maesters?  Or will they act like children, making bad decisions in the most precarious of times?They'll probably have tension when they first meet, since in her mind, he'll be competing for the throne. But when she realizes he's just trying to save Westeros, she'll probably side with him. And when she finds out that they're family, that she actually has a living relative who isn't an insane piece of shit, they'll probably have a pretty good relationship. I'm still hoping that Jon stabs daenerys thru the heart in the next season in order to temper lightbringer and become azor ahai. I believe the fact they find out they are kin will compel them both to work together.Please as if Jon Sue will lose his OP toy.Longclaw was probably Rhaegar's sword. House Mormont was too poor to have a VS sword. Jorah was their first knight and their emblems feature axes. If they did, Jorah would have taken it with him or sold it to support his high maintenance Hightower wife. And if it was miraculously so important to the house that the conscienceless Ser Jorah wouldn't sell or take it, then Jeor Mormont wouldn't give it away to Jon.

The chapter where Jon gets it is filled with references to Jon wanting his father's sword. He already has it. Jeor, Aemon, Qhorin, and Benjen all knew who Jon was thanks to either Bloodraven or Ned.

Why was Rhaegar's sword at the wall? Because it was returned to Maester Aemon after the Trident, like Dawn was returned to Starfall.
Do you really think the people who made the last 2 sesons will have that much insight?At best a girl her age can use a crossbow if it's installed horizontally. Her wielding a bastard sword anytime soon is ludicrous. Much more likely if she doesnt want to be idle she will prepare the soup with the boys and the elderly. You cant really have 100% of the population actively fighting with weapons.She already knows how to fight, she is from Bear Island. They get Wildling raids all the time, so even their women know how to fight.Arya and Lyanna need to be a dynamic duo. I need that in my life!Longclaw isn't her type.

She's going to dual wield Zweihanders It won't come up because Longclaw is Blackfyre! I KNOW NOBODY AGREES, BUT I'LL NEVER STOPAre they really going to expend energy in the previous little time left in the show on Jon and Lyanna arguing over a fucking sword?lol i thought about this as well, and now i realize brienne has part of the stark's sword too :(Well supposedly the Ice reforged by the Lannisters was not the original Ice was actually relatively new. If Jon obtained the original ice, perhaps from deep within the crypts of Winterfell,  he would have no need for two valerian steel swords and could then return Longclaw to house Mormont.  I've also entertained the idea the R+L=J is wrong and that Ashara Dayne really is the mother of Jon and that he will eventually wield Dawn. The light of dawn brings a new day.Even if Jon returns the sword, he'll get the sword back soon after. This is Game of Thrones. Lyanna and any other kid who goes into battle is going to die immediately.At least Longclaw was given to Jon by a Mormont, someone needs to remind Brienne that she is parading around with a Stark sword that was stolen and defiled by their enemies, it doesn't belong to her because it was not Jaime's gift to give and I'm confused why the honorable Brienne doesn't feel honor-bound to return it to its rightful owners.*(somewhere in Winterfell)*

"okay, everyone, thanks for coming. we're going to hash out who owns who's sword. now, Brienne, i know Jaime gave you Oathkeeper-"

"he did!"

"yes, but it was made of Ice, and that was our ancestral family blade. as for Longclaw-"

"it's mine, Sansa, i earned it!"

"yes i know you think so, Jon, but Lady Lyanna should have it now. you let traitor houses keep their lands, you should let loyal houses keep their swords too."

"ha!"

"shove it, Mormont, i'm King!"

"okay, make the swap. Brienne, you give Jon your sword. Jon, give Lyanna your sword."

"fine. stupid feudal custodianships... stupid Kingindanorf..."

"now Brienne, no pouting. maybe we'll find you a nice morningstar, how does that sound?"

"... that's fine i guess."








white walkers ought to go ahead and surrender nowIts not hers.    It was Lord Mormont's and he deemed Jon worthy of it. 

Its his now. Maybe he can give her Widow's Wail as a trade since it was made from Ice.Do people in this sub really think that once something is given away you can just ask for it back?

Tormund (you know, maybe her dad) should train her.I bet when brienne dies she tells Jon the history of her sword and that it used to be part of Ned's sword. And Jon would rather have that then long claw I imagine. Lyanna strikes me as someone who would feel honored that her King is wielding her house's ancestral sword... as long as it's returned after the fact... or if she gets to be Queen...Joer Mormont gave long claw to Jon snow 
End of story
Jon can pass it to the mormonts when he dies or he can do whatever he wants with it 

I dont know why people want jon snow to give up long claw . Not gonna happen. She's too smol at this point to use the sword anyway.

Come to think of it, isn't it a bit odd Jeor brought that sword with him to the Wall? I mean, yeah, okay, his son was an exile, but Jorah's not the only Mormont. Then give it away to Jon? Seems...strange.Could just be solved by her agreeing that the belongs to the King in the North...Brienne should give her sword to Jon and Jon should give his sword to Lyanna.Pretty sure the show will just completely gloss over this. Also, Jon is wielding Longclaw north of the Wall, so it won't happen this season, if at all.Isn't it kinda dumb that Lyanna wasn't already trained? Bear Island already trains their women to fight lolWhere is Widow's Wail at these days?Technically, they're all going to learn how to wield weapons equipped with dragonglass.Her mother used a Morning star. I hope to see her pick up that legacyNo takes-backsies.[removed]Wouldn't it be convenient if Dark Sister were to show upThat actually is a good point. This leads me to think that the show will have Blackfyre in the crypts, and that Jon will believe his parentage by finding and wielding it.She doesn't need a sword. She's a Mormont, so she can just skinchange into an 11 feet angry she bear. No take backs.

It's only fitting for the Targaryen bastard to wield a blade which gave it's name to a house founded by a Targaryen bastard.I figure that Lyanna would probably be happy for Jon to have her sword, so long as House Mormont is given credit.Did you think we'd see a five-minute montage of literal shit?The old Ice wasnt valyrianI've got some tinfoil on this:

Longclaw is the original Ice, and was forged as a greatsword by the Children of the Forest.  It was given to the Starks as part of the Pact and may be the first dragonsteel blade.


When a 6' man wields a 6' sword, it's a greatsword.

When a 6' man wields a 4' sword, it's a bastard sword.

When a 4' CotF wields a 4' sword, it's a greatsword.  

By the same token, Gregor Clegane, an 8' tall man, wields a 6' greatsword like a bastard sword.

I have thought that R+L=J, but Ashara Dayne was at the Tower of Joy, and was Ned's first and real love- and Ashara came to know Lyanna, and knows Jon Snow was the heir to the throne.

Therefore, I think that House Dayne -- especially since I believe Ashara Dayne = Septa Lemore, who is alive and able to prove the events of the ToJ -- will want Jon to wield Dawn in The Wars To Come, aka, The War for Dawn... the war against the Long Night and the Night's King aka.  Jon will be given Dawn, the sword that represents or perhaps actually is the Light bringing sword- and will return Longclaw to Ser Jorah Mormont, who will take the black to fulfill his father's dying wish.


Aww yeah son.Tormund: "I've a sword...."I doubt it. It looks very Lannister-yWhy would he have that, and then Long Claw? Would it get bored of Oathkeeper or something?

^^^than*. 

^^^FTFY.I can't remember, did Brienne know about the history of her sword? It would kind of annoy me if she's knowingly swinging around Jon's father's - as far as they know - sword around him.Well he doesn't use a shield. He could dual-wield. The real question is if you still take the offhand penalty with Valyrian Steel...> Come to think of it, isn't it a bit odd Jeor brought that sword with him to the Wall? I mean, yeah, okay, his son was an exile, but Jorah's not the only Mormont. 

Bloodraven did the same thing with Dark Sister. But went is mia with it.Go read [this](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/388feg/spoilers_all_with_renewed_longclaw_hype_i_present/) post about longclaw. There's some interesting ideas in there.I think Jeor meant to make Longclaw the hereditary sword for the Lords commander of the Night's Watch. He wanted to groom Jon for command, and Jon would have no one to pass it on to except his successor. Giving Longclaw to Jon was Jeor's way of  leaving a legacy, knowing that he wasn't doing well in terms of his bloodline. Do we really know why Jeor even joined the Night's Watch in the first place?  Also I'm pretty sure Jorah sent the sword to him after the whole poacher incident.Well his other known relatives are all femalesDident Jeor's sis send it to him at the wall after Jorah bailed on Westeros? What i would like to know is how did such a small, poor house get a Valarian sword when the Lannisters paid enough for Brightroar to raise an army Arya has probably outgrown Needle so they can just stick some dragonglass on the edges of it and give it to herAnd they should remake Ice god damn it. I was actually *super* disappointed that they did not mention this. real cool little tidbit about bear island.She´s young, sheesh.Hence why she rebutted Lord Glover when he questioned Jon's direction of training women and girls.Think this might just be a plot gap. Yes she should already be trained. The show seems to often leave little errors in like thisIn the show?  Who knows?  In the books, theories abound. I like the one where Littlefinger had it smuggled out with the tapestries he requested from CerseiJaime's hip.Longclaw is valyrian steel, it can kill White Walkers, Jon did it.It's a mace, I thought. But I could be wrong. Isn't Maege Mormont somewhere looking for Howland Reed to deliver Robbs will?[removed]Blackfyre won't be there. Dark Sister on the othes hand ...Although it would be cool, how would blackfyre have gotten into the crypts of winterfell? The last place it was seen was by bittersteel in the free cities. I think the more likely sword would be dark sister which was last seen with brynden rivers aka the three eyed raven. I am not sure if he was allowed to take this sword with him when he took the black but he might still have it in his tree lair. Fuck I want this. [Spoilers for the Mormonts attacking King's Landing.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lI6XqSMZhDs)These lady mormont fanfics are getting out of hand...or a cute little bear cubNo, dont.  I want Thormund to stay in love with Brienne.  I dont want an angry 11 foot she-bear to catch his eye.I would love to see this!!!I mean, she kinda deserves it back. He shamed an entire room of Northern lords into proclaiming Jon king.

At least she deserves some additions to Bear Island. I like this idea but i don't think Jon is good enough to wield Dawn without dishonoring its name."HAR"*he rather

*~~and~~ than

*Would heShe does 00:30


https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rlJWgOizJMoJamie told her when he gave her the blade IIRCIf Jaune started dual-wielding like Arthur Dayne, I'd probably die of happiness. Jon = Kirito confirmed.Jeor joined the Watch in order to allow Jorah to assume the lordship of Bear Island. Jorah's wife was a Southron gold digger and the Mormonts were pretty poor, but Jeor thought the title would help Jorah keep her, at least. Jorah sold the poachers as slaves in order to raise money to keep his wife in the manner to which she was accustomed. When he was caught and fled, she left him, but he had the decency to return Longclaw to his family before going into exile.>Do we really know why Jeor even joined the Night's Watch in the first place?

Considering the disdain he has for his criminal son, I think it's safe to assume Jeor joined for the same reason many people join the armed services -- to get money for college. 

Yeah, fair enough. And the Wall is his family now, so it makes sense he'd want to pass it on to one of them. The Mormonts acquired Longclaw before the Doom of Valyria, when Valyrian steel was still in production. So the steel itself was probably a lot cheaper then. Brightroar was also purchased before then, but it's safe to say that the Lannisters weren't going to settle for functionality when getting its ancestral sword. They probably jacked up the price however they could just so they could say that Brightroar was the most expensive weapon in Westeros. Longclaw on the other hand was smaller and presumably a lot less decorated. I'm pretty sure in the books it was explained that tywin tried to buy a valyrian sword for years even from poor and impoverished houses but they all declinedDoesn't Valyrian steel kill White Walkers just like dragonglass? Or is that only book canon?Lol whatI disagree, two longswords are better than one great sword for the war to come.

All Valerian daggers they can find should be reforged into bladed spears like what oberyn had and so on. It's a weird missed opportunity as the scene is obviously set up precisely to show that Lyanna is a badass. Why not remind Lord Glover that her island already practices this policy, and none of them are the worse for wear for it? You'd get the same effect, but you'd keep the continuity straight in that Bear Island women already do fight.

Which they do in the show universe (just like in the books) considering during our very first introduction to Lyanna is Sansa says Lyanna will grow up to be a great beauty, and Lyanna says she won't because her mother wasn't, but that her mother was a great warrior who died fighting beside Robb. The show already established that Mormont women fight.No, she said that Bear Island WILL begin training their girls. As in they don't already do. She's agreeing to Jon's policy, not it was already a policy Bear Island enforces on their own.I hope he renames it.I had forgotten about that, thanks. 

Edit: I only remember him having Oathkeeper before giving it to Brienne. Is he shown again with Widow's Wail afterward, or are we just left to assume that since he's the only Lannister left to wield it?Yes, and? We're talking about a scene from the show where Jon is talking to the northern lords about acquiring dragonglass and training to use weaponized forms of it.That's her name :) Idk, didn't she say that her mom was at the red wedding?Yes. Current whereabouts unknown but she's still alive I really feel like Dark Sister should end up in Dany's hands somehow.I'd agree with you if we were talking about the books, but Young Griff isn't in the show. They'd do blackfyreIncorrect. The last place Blackfyre was seen was on the battlefield at Redgrass Field in the first Blackfyre rebellion. There are zero verified sightings of the sword after that battle. Some assume Bittersteel took it across the narrow sea.I would be shocked if Jon got Dark Sister. Arya I believe is the only character to have mentioned Dark Sister. She also very literally fits the description of a dark sister.

If there is a Sword in the Winterfell Crypts it is Dawn. 

*Wait, why Dawn? Jon's not even a Dayne bro* 

Ned had it. We've *actually* seen it. It is present at Jon's birth and Lyanna's death. House Dayne and Darkstar (clearly my favorites) are out of the show. It makes far more sense for Dawn to be buried with Lyanna.True. Although this is unknown to a majority of show watchers. While I doubt this will be the case in the books, it wouldn't be too hard to pull off in the show. 

Maybe when Sam is researching Valyrian steel, he reads a passage on Blackfyre. It must be the most famous Valyrian steel sword, as it was passed down among Targaryen kings. This gives viewers a quick reference to the blade and its meaning.

Rhaegar was obsessed with the "Prince that was Promised", and I wouldn't put it past him to employ confidants to search tirelessly to find Blackfyre and present it to his son.Heard that maybe Dark Sister is the sword that Meera grabbed from the Cave as they fled. Maybe she has it?I would have to check again, but I seem to remember Aemon mentioning he had brought Darksister.  Why on Earth would Bittersteel go to the Winterfell Crypts, with no one having any knowledge of it, all the way from the Free Cities, just to hide Blackfyre?  You guys have the tinfoil turned up to 10.Are you implying Lady Lyanna wouldn't be the fiercest fucking bear that ever walked in the north?

Imagine what a giant she-bear with *her* inside of it would do to those frostspiders everyone keeps going on abouthttp://static2.fjcdn.com/comments/5205378+_67cd86828d4d08feaf0b762436b5c7a6.jpgOops! My bad. He wouldn't be attracted, he would tear up with pride and say "That's my daugther"Longclaw is a very long sword. It is a bastard sword, a length and a half sword. Which means it is just as long as a normal long sword plus half of the length of another long sword. She would struggle to wield it well at this stage. 

Besides Jon needs it right now to fight White Walkers. And after the speech Jon gave about punishing sons for the sins of the father. I know Jorah isn't her dad, but...I can't think of anyone more capable at the moment though. Hm, I have mixed feelings. I hope it's one of those things they told each other offscreen. Otherwise I don't think I like that she's been with them this whole time without even mentioning she has their birthright (or what was).Just saw the scene again. Gives me mixed feelings. I can see why it's hers now and the connection to it protecting Sansa but I hope she mentioned it to the Starks....So, I guess that is whyle Mr. Tarly was pissed. He would have to take out a second mortgage  on his house to send his son to Maester college. isnt a bastard sword pretty big?So in World book Lannisters were kings. Didnt pay taxes, super rich and took enough gold for a army for Brightroar how did Mormonts come up with the $ a few hundred years ago to buy LongClaw Yes, but the question is how did the Mormonts get their Valarian sword? they never had much money, and Tywin probably would have bought them a kingdom for it. It's actually not yet confirmed in the books. There's some mention of "dragonsteel," but we haven't seen anyone use it against the Others.It does. Jon killed the White Walker at Hardhome with Longclaw. A shame the only blacksmith in Westeros who knows how to reforge VS is in KL.Jaime is wearing it in the first episode of season 7. 

It passed to Tommen after Joffrey's death, but Tommen had no need of it. After Jaime returned to King's Landing and learned Tommen was dead he took Widow's Wail for himself.The thread is about Lyanna Mormont using Longclaw. You just said that they need to be trained with dragonglass. Why would that be needed if she could use Longclaw?Show version was [confirmed dead](http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Maege_Mormont) last season. 

Notably Lyanna speaks about her in past tense. "My mother wasn't a great beauty. She wasn't any kind of beauty. She was a great warrior, though."Hasn't it been a couple years of looking already? :/  It's already been mentioned in the show by arya to tywin.No you're wrong according to the http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Blackfyre bittersteel took the sword. it is not as if someone saw him take it and wrote it down somewhere. that is the accepted story. oh wow you are quite right I totally forgot about Arthur's swordNot literally. Figuratively. Unless you mean "dark" in a literal sense. Which you didn't.

(Yes, this is my pet peeve and I'm sorry)I think Ned returned Dawn to Ashara Dayne, at least in the books, correct me if I'm wrongThat would be awesome, but looking at screenshots of that sword it looks too* worn to be Valyrian steel. It could be true, but I would have expected them to use a nicer looking sword if they had planned for that reveal.

Edit: "Too" not "to"Aemon the dragonknight? or Maester Aemon?
As another person pointed out..

Maybe not Blackfyre, but Darksister (ya know, the bastard sword) could be.  Last known owner was Bloodraven.> frostspiders

And Grumkins We forgive you.  Thormund cant help who he falls in love with!Ya know lass, I fucked yer mother once.I thought a bastard sword was halfway between a normal sword and a longsword? Surely if it was the same size as Ice, and then another half, Jon couldn't carry it on his back?The HoundSam is in a soup or shit situation. Pretty big yes, but IIRC Brightroar was a greatsword.It's a hand and a half sword. So bigger than a long sword with a longer hilt to use both hands when necessary. They can be used in one hand unless you're small, though there are varying definitions of what a bastard sword actually is.Valyrian Steel wasn't hard to acquire when they bought it. After the Doom, when the Lannisters lost their sword, *then* they were priceless. Because they couldn't have a new one made. They didn't have to buy it, there's plenty of possibilities. Maybe they looted it off a dead Andal during their invasion.It wasn't difficult to acquire one when they got it. It only became difficult after the Doom of Valyria. 

They weren't always priceless. A lot of 'lesser' houses have Valyrian steel swords, they used to be more commonplace and many of them are leftover from aligning with one Targ or another in history.Bear Island was a target for the Ironborn back in the day, so I assume one of them had stolen a Valyrian steel sword and ended up getting themselves killed by Mormont men.I guess I automatically assumed dragonsteel is Valyrian steel. I remember reading something about the latter's magical properties.You're right, I vaguely reemmbered something like that but not precisely where in the show. It'd be totally badass if they introduced the famed Valyrian arakh this season, but I don't think that's gonna happen.A fitting sword to use on Cersei, a widow of her beloved Robert.They never said she was going to train with a sword, specifically. They said they were going to train to fight with weapons, generally speaking. And it was in the context of acquiring dragonglass for making into said weapons. I haven't read about in the books or seen in the show a dragonglass sword.

That doesn't confirm she's dead. It only confirms that Lyanna thinks she's dead.Looking for Maege? No, I don't think that anyone has been looking for her. She sailed into the Neck before the Red Wedding and we haven't heard from her since. There is good reason to suspect that she found Howland too, since we know that the crannogmen were in place to bleed the ironmen at Moat Cailin and the Boltons along the causeway. Wrong. According to the World of Ice and Fire, the official book documenting ASOIAF canon, the sword was last SEEN at the battle of redgrass field. It's generally accepted that Bittersteel has the sword with the golden company however, it has not actually had eyes laid upon it by a verified source since the first Blackfyre Rebellion. lol yeah literally my pet peeve tooIs ok He did, to my understanding, and House Dayne has yet to produce another man worthy of the title of Sword of the Morning (which is passed down to evidently amazing knights/swordsmen of House Dayne).Ya you're probably right. Right after I commented I watched the [Ringer Ask The Maester Live](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dM5bo7O8vgw) video and Jason mentioned that the sword looked rusty.

Dangit!The relevant one.I think you have it backwards. Blackfyre is the bastard sword, Dark Sister is a "woman's" sword - "its slender blade is designed for a woman's hand."Darksister traveled with Brynden to the wall, it just doesn't makes sense that he would leave it at Winterfell, or for Jon to find it when he already has a sword that Little Lyanna wouldn't want back because her grandfather gave it to her new king in the north honorably.  And snarks!L:"When was that?"

T:"Let me think. How old are you?"That... that would be a great reveal. Little Lyanna being Tormund's daughter.Sigh.
*dons tinfoil half-helm*Though maybe more, it's hard to tell bears apart in snowstorms.It's like a combination of an internship and pledging.But the one most agreed on is it being hand-and-half, so its got a universal use where its size, balancing and qualities combine the best of both worlds, while attempting to mininise the downsides of lower speed and less  reach.Or received it as a reward for leal service.No, they probably just bought it. They weren't hard to buy or even that expensive until after the Doom of Valyria. Nah. Jaime gonna hand of gold that bitch.Do we honestly think they're going to delve into a fake-death subplot for a character who never spoke onscreen?Keep in mind that A World of Ice and Fire was written intentionally with the caveat that its from a maester's perspective, and that there are many potential errors in the information given. I'd be surprised if Darkstar doesn't end up wielding Dawn in the books, deserved or not.How can anybody top Dayne though? When the falling star has er...fallen, no candle can replace it!Isn't Valyrian steel basically just stronger and longer lasting.  Just thinking that after around what 90 years sitting in a cave?  That it would probably rust after a while of not being used.  It's too unwieldy for a COTF and Bloodraven has been attatched to the roots.Is it too much of a stretch for Benjen to have brought Dark Sister back with him during one of his visits/recruiting runs? Nobody would question him entering the crypts, and he could hide it then, and it's not all that impossible for him to have been given it by the Children/Bloodraven for protection or use in the future.Why cant the new King in the North grant Longclaw honorably to Lyanna Mormont, considering she is his strongest supporter?

If Darksister was at the Wall, wouldn't Jon know?  Is it North of the wall?  Why wouldnt Bloodraven have give it to Bran or Meera, considering it can kill Others?

We know he took it to the wall, but not that he HAD it at the wall.  

Traveling Targaryens would have made many stops along the way, but only one guaranteed stop.  Winterfell.  Its the only castle on the Kings Road.  Its halfway between the neck and the Wall.  And its the Seat of the Starks, the direct vassals of the Targaryen Dynasty.

So, Darksister isnt at Castle Black (or eastwatch or thebshadow tower, or we would know) and it isn't with Bran.

Either its in a cave North of the Wall, or it's in Winterfell.

Remember, were talking about Bloodraven.  A guy who can literally see the future.Why not both?Definitely not. Especially since Lyanna Mormont is now such a fan favourite. 
Besides there wouldn't really be a reason to bring her back. I don't think the will is important in the show.AS LONG AS I DON'T SEE AN EAR AS PROOF I CONSIDER HER ALIVENot at all. I'm just saying there's zero tangible confirmation she's dead other than Lyanna speaking in the past-tense.I know. That's why it should be taken seriously because nowhere in the text of TWoIAF is the sword mentioned as being seen in the free cities, yet there documented instances of the subsequent Blackfyre rebellions.... with no mention of the sword. This book thus allows for tinfoily theories because anything could have happened to the sword. Dark Sister already sat at the bottom of a lake for years and was fine afterwards.It's definitely possible that Bloodraven saw the future and put it in the crypts cause he knew Jon would be there one day.

But why? What value does thia add to the story. Jon already has a great sword that he earnt honorably and hes already used it to slay, why does he need a new sword?Wasnt it determined that Benjen had Dark Sister in the trailers?Brynden didn't travel by land though, he sailed to EastwatchMeera didn't have a sword when her Jojen hodor and bran go to the cave she left with one however it was also a smaller sword it's plausible she has dark sister now Schrodinger's mormontOh, I'm not saying that at all. I was just proposing a theory to go along with the overall discussion in the thread, in order to promote discussion. I agree with many others that Lyanna Mormont would let Jon keep Longclaw out of honor and respect.He was Lord Commander for a period of time.  So he definitely spent time in Winterfell.Do we even know if the 3 I'ed Raven is even Bloodraven according to the show? This is some tinfoil I can get behind.Come to think on it...

Jorah is in a box, with greyscale. He could die at any moment. He could be alive or dead, and the only way to know for sure is to open the window and look inside (whilst trying very hard to avoid being touched when he shoots his arm out like an utter bastard!!!)

But until that window is opened, is Jorah alive, or is Jorah dead? We don't know, but he cannot be 'both.'

Ergo, JORAH, not Maege, is Schrodinger's Mormont.He is not and probably won't be at this pointI mean it's. It really isn't tin foil we know that blood raven had dark sister when he was at the wall we know he went missing north or the wall and didn't come back. We know dark sister isn't at the wall. We see meera grab a sword which is clearly not bronze or obsidian which the cotf would have used or made, it's a smaller sword in blood ravens cave which clearly wasn't made by the other inhabitants at the cave, and the sword isn't at the wall it's almost without a doubt dark sister that meera now has.

I love how I'm getting down votes for using logic and reasoning provided by in book and in show known knowledge Okay. If Meera has Dark Sister and it's told to us as clear as day...I will Gild you.Jesus Christ what is wrong with you people.

This is almost as stupid as chemtrails.His ultimate failing is that while he is the master of the political game, those games can only reflect the end realities of things achieved by men backed by military force in Westerosi society.

When he finds someone he can't leverage because the military conflict is the only thing that matters, and his attempts to persuade fail to find purchase because survival > advancement,  he's pretty well doomed.

Baelish would rule the kingdoms, eventually, given enough peace time.  Sorry, but I hate LF. If he was so smart he would have Brandon Stark killed or incapacitated before that joke of a duel. After Brandon's death, all he did was write Cat a letter that she never read. Could he not come up with clever way to impress Cat before she was betrothed to Ned? What about Ned coming back with a bastard? Wouldn't that have been the perfect time to drive a wedge in-between Ned & Cat? 

And now, he's a pedophile lusting after the daughter of the woman he couldn't get. 

Fuck him. I hope Jon cuts his throat. 

In a parallel universe, I see Littlefinger sitting on the Iron Throne. He gets what he wants. He's the most important man in Westeros. But he has no kingdom, because it's all been destroyed.Biggest thing he did wrong was giving Sansa to the Boltons, which honestly was the reason why Sansa hates him now.From the preview for ep. 2 it looks like hes going to try and manipulate Jon now that its obvious Sansa aint buying it, and hes starting in the crypts.....I don't think that his main goal was to claim Cat, he also wanted the power. Also I don't believe that there were an age restriciton in Westeros, even if there was one, Sansa would be totally legal in medieval era. Additionally he doesn't want Sansa because she is young, but because she looks like Cat.King of the ashesBut it kinda obvious for us viewers that is definetely won't buy his shit either. In the start of the series he was mastermind and know he looks like a desperate fool with some smart ass lines.


The beauty of this show was that we didn't know what's going to happen next, it was kinda unpredictable and mysterios. But LF's plot in current situation looks pretty lame. Since results of his actions are kinda obvious. there's also the fact that hes moved up high enough and fast enough that he is no longer under the radar or underestimated.
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (No Spoilers) thread.  This scope covers NO story elements of ASOIAF or "Game of Thrones" per [Rule 3.3](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules).  Any discussion of the story of the books or the show must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Main) or (Spoilers Published).

Threads about r/asoiaf (meta topics) will be removed at moderator discretion.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Radio Westeros or History of WesterosWe have had [several threads](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/search?q=podcast&restrict_sr=on&sort=relevance&t=week) on this question recently, which you may want to check out in addition to any answers crows offer here.

There are tons to choose from!RadiowesterosStrong nonoWait, let the man finish. *takes sip of gasoline*May I know Y ?I really doubt she'll hang around to be in the same room as them. After Dany landing at dragonstone s7e1, I expected melisandre is already there. Imagine ...dany open the door and the red lady waiting for her.Dany and Davos could be awkward by itself. Davos was once Hand to the man that took Dragonstone from Dany's family and would have ordered the deaths of her and Viserys if Darry hadn't smuggled them away. Dany might not know all that though and in the show it probably won't be brought up because there won't be time for thatMore action over the table.great point!The Davos thing is the only problem, and it may very well be addressed in the coming episode. Conversations may have also been had off screen and they will be referred to. we will seeHonestly, guys, what the fuck.

There's another post about the same fucking thing on the front page that was made like an hour before thisConsider this article about Roman mines.

http://www.ancient.eu/article/882/

>Progress through hard rock could be very slow and it was not uncommon for tunnels to take years if not decades to be built. Construction marks left on a Roman tunnel in Bologna shows us that the rate of advance through solid rock was 30 cm (12 inches) per day. In constrast, the rate of advance of the Claudius tunnel can be calculated at 1.4 m (55 inches) per day.

So finding an existing mine is actually of huge importance. It allows extraction to begin almost as soon you get people there to mine it. Oh goodie another dragonglass thread.It's a television show, sometimes they have to remind people of things that were said literally 2+ years ago in a one off scene. 99.9% viewing the show don't obsess over it and post on communities like this. The show cannot cater to the small % of people that do.

The scene is there to to remind the viewers about dragonglass and give Jon a reason to go to Dragonstone, plain and simple. It's a plot device. Stannis: "I know what it is, we have it on Dragonstone."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7uo7dwbteFE

It's not a plot hole, and it's not clear that it's more than a few old Targ trinkets, which was it's only use beforehand.

In fact I think Sam even says something like "Stannis said.. but I didn't think... I need to tell Jon"... I havn't downloaded it so not 100%, but Sam conveys he didn't expect it to be a huge cache. Stannis never said they have tons of it. He literally said "I know what Dragonglass is, we have it in Dragonstone"in S5E5, thats it.

He never said they have a mine or a significant amount of it. That is why Sam gave it no further thought which is not too unrealistic in my opinion. 

Just because Stannis says they have some doesn't mean it is literally worth travelling there.> but I'm almost shocked by the lack of people that seem to care about how Sam finds the mention of Dragonglass on Dragonstone and it is a huge revelation to him.

This is confusing given how up in arms everyone is about this.It is not a plot hole. He remembers Stannis saying there is Dragonglass there.

However, it's about the amount of it. Sam didn't expect it to be a mine. 

It's like if you meet someone and say let's go have a beer. And they say sure come to my place I have beers. And you're like great, that's good. Then you arrive and find out the person doesn't just have beer, they have their own microbrewery in the basement and barrels of beer. 

Honestly, I think this is probably a case of Plot vs Realism. Between Stannis' revelation and now, the North has had no strong moment to even consider going to Dragonstone for multiple hopefully obvious reasons. Sam's revelation comes at a time when this is more plausible, and also serves to bring it back to the audience's mind. 

With this aspect in mind, there are three ways this could've gone. A) is the way it did, with Sam finding the information and mentioning Stannis' mention of it. This is easily excused as him thinking Stannis just meant a few swords or maybe a chunk or something.

Let's consider option B: Sam finds the information and brings it back to audience mind, and doesn't mention Stannis. Cue all reviewers ever going "Uh....Stannis told you that?" Better that they reference it between these choices.

Option C: It's brought up by Davos, presuming he actually knows the significant volume that's present. Which doesn't seem to be the case. This episode has Sam merely steal books for later or flip through fruitlessly.

Considering these options (I may easily be overlooking something), it seems that they chose the smoothest of some options that would be awkward regardless, simply due to the vaguery of Stannis' only mention (and therefore only flashback-able previously-on scene they could have used). Storywise, it gives Sam something smalltime to do and sets up for the viewer that yes, there's some rad information Sam will be finding - this is just a tip of the iceberg.

TLDR: I think it's fine, and works as a method of reintroduction of a mention that for many viewers was a blip on the radar seasons ago.It is a hole for sure. But I think the main reason for  the dragonglass plot in episode 1 was to set up a Jon daenerys meeting. That's where they are headed. This is the big issue. Stannis mentioned they had it
 If it wasn't already a mine they'd spend years just getting to it. Yeah but considering they are desperate for Dragonglass you'd think he'd still research into it wouldn't you? It's not like it'd be a waste of time to check. I see what you're saying, but Stannis didn't just say Dragonstone had Dragonglass. I don't know his exact words and I can't look them up right now but just by hearing it was found on Dragonstone you'd think Sam wouldve tried researching about it right away.Yeah, but he could have remembered Sam telling him about dragonglass on Dragonstone, or Davos could have mentioned it, and that would serve the same purpose. And make sense.Come on, mate. You complained that fans don't remember something that happened two seasons ago, but you missquote the scene. There's a huge difference between "we have it in Dragonstone" and "Dragonstone had tons of it!".He is researching. He reads the books at the Wall, realizes there isn't enough info and asks Jon to send him to become a Maester where he can read more which he does and realizes it's an actual mine of Dragonglass and not something like a sack that he found at the hammer.This is all just covering for the show writing out Stannis without him telling Jon he'll have his forces at Dragonstone begin mining dragonglass like he does in Dance.Stannis words are literally "we have it on Dragonstone". 

That's it. this is also after scaring Sam by bringing up how Randall Tarly fought against Robert during the Rebellion.I'm with you boss. They screwed that up. But I believe that why they did itWhat does it matter how much dragonglass he said as far as wording.  If you go back and watch the scene it is implied it's a lot.  Either way Jon is talking like he will scour every last bit of the Seven Kingdoms for any remaining Dragonglass anyway.  

That's not even getting into the fact that Davos was literally on Dragonstone and has seen all the Dragonglass and just sits there not saying a word
There was a mine on Dragonstone and Stannis didn't realise that?He didn't have any forces at Dragonstone from the look of it. Sam is scared of everything.It matters because he used the cuantity of dragonglass as an argument.

> That's not even getting into the fact that Davos was literally on Dragonstone and has seen all the Dragonglass and just sits there not saying a word

That's a different point, and in my opinion is more compelling. Anyway, there are lots of things that I ignore about my own country. I think that is normal for Davos to ignore that in Dragonstone there's a mine of a particular mineral.No one is saying Stannis didn't realize that. 

Saying that Sam didn't jump to that when Stannis told him there was Dragonglass on Dragonstone. 

The line is about Sam not making the connection.

Not in the show, where no one makes an effort to hold lands and structures of any significance. In Dance Stannis still has forces holding Storm's End and Dragonstone, although Ser Loras may have recaptured Dragonstone for Tommen.I really didnt like the dialogue in this episode and I wasn't a fan oh euron but I didn't have an issue with the use of the wrod murder. Euron is half mad and he likes to say mental shit. I think it was to emphasize that he's doing something wrong but he's so powerful that even when admitting his wrong doing, no one stops him. The Greyjoy's don't have a good schooling system.Killing, i.e. homicide, can be justified or unjustified. It's not necessarily a crime or an immoral thing to do. Murder, on the other hand, is by definition a crime. 

Given that this is Euron we're dealing it, the choice to use "murder" is probably deliberate. In an earlier season, Tyrion referred to the Seven Kingdoms as a "country". That one still bothers me, a lot.I think for me the issue is that "murder " by definition is an unlawful killing, so the use was inappropriate to begin with. If he's saying they are traitors then killing them wouldn't be unlawful and wouldn't be murder.The dialogue has taken a massive hit since season 4. Been saying it for two years and noticing more and more people saying the same thing.

I will add though, Jon and Sansa's private conversation and Hound+Beric were both pretty natural. Beric's actor has a way of giving you the chills.i think they realised how stupid it was of them and decided to keep using it to annoy fans or some shit I completely agree. I'm pretty sure he said it last season too, "let's murder them", so I was pretty surprised when he did it again in the premiere. I imagine all of the raiding parties from the Iron Islands getting on a boat and saying, "let's commit larceny". It's absolutely weird and I don't understand it. I'm sure there's some sort of point they're trying to convey, but it's clumsy and cheesy. I figured I was the only one who had a problem with it though. Full disclosure, in real life, someone close to me was murdered and it really affected me. So it's possible I just react more strongly to the word than other people.Euron sounds like a kid who learned a new word and he can't wait for a chance to say it again. I know that Euron just wants to show people that he's cool with murder. I just hope he learns a new word for it because the english language has so many.Doesn't Tyrion use the same word during the battle of the Black Water? Something like "those are brave men trying to take down our walls. Let's murder them".It's winter, he wants to reassure that he won't just kill in battle, maybe? I dunno meta reasons probably. What a bad guy that Euron is, wanting to murder. That Arya, though, what a good gal she is, killing all those nasty Freys.  Thank you. I wish someone would hand them a thesaurus, I feel like they could get a lot more creative with it and the writing would feel better. Stuff like "I will have your head thrown into slavers bay" sound a lot better than "I will murder you"


It just feels like the word keeps getting used when a synonym would make the dialogue feel a lot better. ShameI agree it feels kind of unnatural, but I think the "humor" is in the fact that it feels unnatural because the expectation is that someone would use the word "kill" to downplay their wrongdoing, but instead Euron uses "murder" to emphasize his wrongdoing.The connotation of murder is different and in the end that's why I think they chose it. Killing can be just while murder is wrong and evil. Euron knows he is this and is proud of it so that's why he uses that over just "kill"Why?  Country is just another word for land.  It doesn't necessarily have all the connotations that the modern "nation state" would have. Why? It is a country lol And Euron (I think?) said "nation" in the premiere. His voice has a really cool low and creaky timbre. Perfect for this warrior-ghost kinda vibe.I really can't help but think that this is a (lighthearted) middle finger to the fans that hated the portrayal of Euron, especially with how many times "Let's go murder them" has been sighted.Where are my niece and nephew? Let's go gallivant.Pretty sure he says let's go kill them I've been thinking about this 

Sansa says she admires Cersei and got joy out of seeing Ramsay being eaten by his own dogs(it was Ramsay...but still Ned would not have approved)

Bran basically mind rapes Hodor, and then through his selfishness fucks up his life and gets Hodor, his direwolf, his mentor, and one of the last remnants of an ancient species killed.

Arya is basically death incarnate killing people left and right. And she looked orgasmic with the way she killed Walder last year.

Are the Starks(didn't include Jon Snow since he's half Stark) really supposed to be the heroes at this point? Just wondering.

edit: To the downvoter it's just an idea.That's exactly what I thought.  Back when he said it after the Kingsmoot,  I thought it was the worst line in television history.

But now , after his meeting with Cersei,  I've come to realize that he's so evil he doesn't understand the concept of "killing".  Only  "murdering".  That's what Euron Greyjoy does, with his giant cock and all.  He murders people.I think your explanation makes the most sense and agrees with the dictionary.  I just looked it up and it appears that murder carries with it the label of "unlawful" or just flat out wrong as far as morals go.  Ned killed people during executions but it wasn't a "murder".  Euron and Cersei killing kin without trial could be "murder", but then again.. it's pretty much open war at this point and what is unlawful will be left up to whoever wins.  I seem to remember being weirded out when I heard it but chalked it up as a British thing since I remember hearing it in a Harry Potter movie and thinking it was weird.Well there's also Yara going "We'd appreciate it if you could help us murder an uncle or two."I agree. However its not just him using the word. I fairly certain both Jamie an Cersie used it in this episode and it is a common occurrence with every character. Not a big deal but it just strikes me as odd.The term country isn't used in the books at all when referring to the Seven Kingdoms. It's always the realm.Neither are wrong thoughEh, the Freys had it coming. They literally just got done cheering their participation in betrayal and mass murder. 


But the larger point that the good guys end up less good / morally compromised is still valid. 


They're not perfect, but I'd still much rather live under Stark rule than under e.g. Greyjoy "pillage and rape for fun" rule or Lannister "blow up the entire city" rule...It's kinda about our heroes being the best out of the available alternatives.They're all half Starks.
1) She says she learned from her, not that she admires her. Then Sansa go vengeance. Whether you think vengeance is justified or not is up to you. 

2) Bran is a child who I would say probably doesn't really understand everything that's wrong with what he's doing. The fact that he's a child is very important here. He desperately wants to walk again and because he does not grasp the moral problems with warging Hodor, he does it to experience the thing he wants most. No question that he causes the deaths of those listed, but it's entirely accurate to summarize that incident as "a child makes a mistake."

3) See #1 re: vengeance

One of the most glaring differences between these and the actions of other characters that would be considered "evil" is intent I heard it speculated before that's the moral(?) of the story, the innocent(ish) protagonists we start off with(Starks, Tyrion, Daenerys...), become dicks (LSH, the guys you mentioned, Tyrion probably kills Penny, Dany going crazy...).

And the dicks we start off with (Jaime, The Hound...), becoming good(ish) ("Put this in the fire", Gravedigg- oops I mean CLEGANEBOWL)

Which is kind of sort of how life(ish) works.It's the show. No moral ambiguity allowed. Sounds anachronistic in this setting. Usually the characters refer to Westeros as a "realm." Except it is allowed, e.g. Arya chatting with the random Lannister soldiers who were OK dudes.  There are other examples as well (The Hound comes to mind).  The moral ambiguity is not as strong as it is in the books, sure enough, but it's there in the show.  Because the Freys are such well-rounded and developed characters in the books?Could you imagine if they introduced us to the Freys who would be attending that feast instead of Arya's hangabout with the Lannister soldiers?

And THEN she was cold hearted and ruthless?

That'd be something.

I think you'll find at least a few instances of "country" used in that way in the books. It definitely appears with reference to some of the areas Dany travels to with the Dothraki. "Nation" seems to appear at least once as well referring to the "Dothraki nation." They're definitely not used often, but if they're used occasionally in the books, I don't see why the show can't do so as well.Yep, but it's not completely unthinkable that they would also think of themselves as one country or a nation.


It's only good that they have more than one word for things.no chance of this happening. the show has gone full "revenge feels good + girl power" now. i don't really mind the latter, but the fan service shot of a Stark girl slowly walking away from her victims toward the camera and at the last moment turning a small smile on her face is becoming cliche.My point is those words don't necessarily exist in this world, with "realm" doing the job of either. > My point is those words don't necessarily exist in this world



English has more than one word for most things, there's no reason the common tongue of Westeros wouldn't. And it obviously does exist, if a character uses it.Well it's a work of fiction, so technically any word the writers want to give them exists. The point is that it sticks out as a more modern word than they would use in a medieval setting.  > The point is that it sticks out as a more modern word than they would use in a medieval setting


Only because one is used more commonly today and the two others aren't. But as words they originated roughly at the same time, and country would probably be used more by common folk, as the realm and nation both come from French.




So they could just use words that have fallen out of fashion nowadays, but that really wouldn't make it any more accurate to the medieval setting.
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (No Spoilers) thread.  This scope covers NO story elements of ASOIAF or "Game of Thrones" per [Rule 3.3](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules).  Any discussion of the story of the books or the show must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Main) or (Spoilers Published).

Threads about r/asoiaf (meta topics) will be removed at moderator discretion.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*It's grown a lot, hasn't it.And we're trending :)

https://www.reddit.com/r/trendingsubreddits/comments/6nz5oc/trending_subreddits_for_20170718_rasoiaf/With all the love in the world, NERRRRRDDDDSSSS._quit describing me_Comments in this thread have been removed for violating our [civility policy](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy).

Comments in this thread may be removed in the future for violating our [civility policy](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy).

Slapfighting, name-calling, and personal insults need to stop, or the thread will have to be locked.  Focus on discussing the content of ASOIAF, not on discussing users in ASOIAF.Yikes....PJ is ridiculous nowi had never heard of this dude until someone brought him up in the ozzyman thread... maybe this video wasn't the best starting point to watch this guy's content...?  what's with those cheesey voices?  

can someone point me in the direction of some videos this guy has made you'd recommend?  unless of course this video is a pretty good idea of the content this guy makes, and if that's the case nevermind - it's not really my thing but i just heard of him an hour ago so no harm no foul.Seriously? Critiquing the f*cking map mural? Jesus f*cking Christ, Presto.haven't watched preston in a while (got bored of asoiaf content) but this was hilarious Where are we getting the whole thing about Dragonstone being one of the most defensible castles in Westeros? Is there a cite somewhere? Is it more defensible than Casterly Rock or the Eyrie?PJ, I'm a big fan, but your snarkiness is beginning to wear thin. Please pair these with a serious Q&A video.I dont get all the complaining about her killing all the freys. Everyone keeps saying "but it's impossible she killed *all* the freys!!!" but I'm pretty sure it's never said that literally every single frey was killed. 

The guy says "but what about the frey women and children" even though the show specifically shows her sparing frey women. There's also a line where arya specifies that only relatively high ranking/important freys are there

but no, this guys super smart for noticing that she didnt kill *all* the freysLmao why watch the show if he knows all he will do is shit on it.Some of the points are valid but this video is more annoying than the fucking sand snakesNot a fan at all. I will continue to watch his videos regarding the books because I respect his opinion and knowledge.  But it seems like he is trying to make a point that anyone who enjoys the show is just a mindless idiot who can't see these plot holes.  You could easily go scene by scene in any modern television show and pick it apart like this.  PJ just comes off as bitter that it's not a strict line by line adaption of the novels even though that would be an impossible show to ever make."About Aegon VI and Blackfyres they stated that Blackfyres did not exist in AGOT and only occurred to George while writing the first Dunk and Egg tale/finishing ACOK. That is an interesting data for them when we talk about this topic. For example, in the Illyrio-Varys scene of AGOT, they both couldn't be proBlackfyre when it was written."

This is from another thread
https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6o0yso/spoilers_extended_new_interview_with_elio_garcia/

I can't help wondering what this does to some of PJ's theories, which often rely a lot on looking back at information that only becomes clear in hindsight. Particularly when trying to identify the factions behind the players. I'm sticking this here in case PJ checks out this thread at some point but misses the other (unlikely he'd miss that other one though lol).Yeah, sorry, but I can't stand his jokes. I am sure he has some legitimate criticisms, but I wish he didn't do the voices.i am sure this will be a productive thread with absolutely no butthurt show fans asking the rest of us to 'turn our brains off' and 'stop nitpicking.'

kinda nice to hear that i am not crazy, and it is indeed weird and creepy that D&D are retconning Stannis and Dragonstone as these places everyone just kinda forgot about.

i hope Euron of House Hot Topic catches on, that was gold.I usually think this guy's show reviews are hillarious and on-point but this one didn't do much for me. The only thing I really agreed with him on was the plot hole of how Dragonstone was just left completely abandoned and the Lannisters not doing anything to stop Dany from taking it when they knew she would land there. 

everything else was nitpicky bullshit imo. hilarious.. Am I the only person that thinks this guy is turning into a clown?

Cheesy voiceovers? An entire 'review' video set on some opening TOJ joke that doesn't make sense? 


His critique of the opening scene alone was enough to make me turn it off... yeah, Arya pulled off some crazy shit; but she's been training in assassin school for years, while the Frey's have been basically incompetent in every aspect of ruling, other than mass murdering guests. And it's unreasonable that She could pose as Walder Frey for two weeks? Really? He sits in his castle, bangs his grandchildren, and tells everyone below him to go F themselves at every opportunity. I think she could have pulled off most of that easily.

 It seems like every one of his videos gets more nit-picky and less substantive; and his success is starting to get to him, if he's comfortable using 12-year old action figure voices for a  narrative, as someone pointed out above above.

I think this guy is a breath of fresh air,whenever I look at other YouTube channels I always get the impression that when their reviewing the show they don't want to be too critical in case they lose viewers.not with preston,he calls it as he sees it and in hilariously brutal fashion.Ok, Im very confused about how posting works. I tried posting this yesterday but it just kept saying that "This link has already been posted" but I couldnt find it anywhere. Reddit mobile is the worst.This video is a perfect summation of how it's a good TV show isn't as good as a product as the books. 

It's great TV. Hell, it's easily one of the best things on TV right now. Its TV writing has made the show more accessible and engaging for viewers and people, without irony, often tell me they feel the series didn't really pick up for them until after it went off book. Which.. fine, like what you like... weirdo, but part of what has made the soiaf community so dedicated is how tightly woven and well constructed the world is. So much of what makes the TV show good TV is what (I would argue) makes it an inferior thing all around. Entertaining to be sure, but give it an ounce of thought and you realize how watered down the show has become. 

We have come a long way from using sex scenes to get out the necessary exposition that, while gratuitous, fleshed out the world and made it something special. It made something that impelled me to read the books and (while, yes, I'm one of the millions who read because of the show) become one of the most fervent "the book is better" assholes you'll find. 

What made the early seasons special is just gone now, it's hard to explain, but I don't feel like I'm watching A Song of Ice and Fire, I feel like I'm watching Lost again; it's fun, and engaging as hell, but I've been down this road and know that the experience of the show hype will be more memorable than what the show actually is. The only bit where I think he missed a chance for some snark was the whole Cercei dynasty to last 1000 years thing, without any fucking children lol. 



Sweet Robbins Davos watch was hilarious i think my 4 year old would enjoy this better than I did. 

I figured the first three minutes were some kinda of opening joke, but nope, whole 16+ min video is like that...


"Review"Every  point spot on (except Sansa being right about confiscating the lands - definitely not on board with that).always bang on. The Dragonstone things pushed me over the edgeDid they really do all that? Talk about the importance of Dragonstone and leave it empty?Who is "Arya"? Did he mean Wolverine?Love this guy.He shot to fame with his pink letter conspiracy. There's also deeper dorne, little finger debt scheme etc. What you are missing too touches over his theories. These are for readers of course.Check out all the videos on PJ's channel, most of them are arranged by playlist. You can read all the descriptions and watch something that sounds interesting. If you want a gentler introduction to his season episode reviews, watch them for the earlier seasons, you will see the evolution in his approach. His theory videos are super fun to watch, even if you choose to believe nothing in them. He knows his stuff.The multiple long sieges and failed assaults maybe?Completely agree with you here tbh.You take that back!Other TV shows didn't fall from such a high standard , and show only watchers don't praise other shows for perfection. It's easy to see how intimidating cancerous fans who have no idea what they're missing can be.This is well known and already incorporated into most of PJ's theories.nah, he's hilariousI enjoy his book videos, but the show videos are not nearly as good.It's meant to be nitpicking bullshit. There are three POVs, the Night's King, nitpicky book obsessed asshole, Chad, a casual watchers and an idiot, and sweetrobin it's meant to be in the middle although it's also kind of a book purist.So here you are, providing criticism on the videos' nit picking while admitting you didn't make it past the intro and nit picking the ''cheesy voice over''.  
Then you largely characterize the author has a clown without substance while your whole argument stands on a weird opening sequence in which you admit Arya pulling crazy shits.  
Somehow, no, I don't think the Freys' are 100% idiots through and through. Personally, I thought the Frey's were a little underestimated throughout the whole thing. I understand the show needed to get rid of them, but I refuse to believe that having the Frey name is enough by itself to make you an idiot.  
So yes, to me it's pretty unbelievable to think Arya can impersonate a high lord for weeks on end, or even for hours on end convincingly. Remember that when we're introduced to Jaqen, he was a nobody, not hiding behind the face of Tywin Lannister.  You need to separate his show videos from his book videos. His treatment of the show is very comic and lighthearted (and pretty negative obviously), but his book videos are extremely meticulous and seriously researched. They can be fascinating to watch.Preston is, and always has been, *incredibly* critical of the show. His shtick is pandering to book purists (nitpicking every detail, every deviation, every TV-logic moment) and raging at changes that interfere with or contradict his theory videos.

I honestly find it a bit grating. The show is nowhere close to perfect, but I just don't see what the benefit is in constantly shitting all over it. [removed]There's a timer lockout on youtube reviews as main posts after an episode. I saw the ozzyvid on here so posted this one.[removed]The books will never be finished. The show will. A completed show is better than an unfinished book series."our dynasty shall last forever!"

"but all our kids are dead."

"those stupid babies were traitors, we'll make new kids!"

"but you're old and drunk!"

"well maybe we can find some blonde kid who wants in on the scam?"Honestly, at this point Cersei reminded me a bit of Adolf Hitler from *Downfall*. So I guess the whole "last a 1000 years" thing was an intentional reference. Really what we should be taking away from this is that Cersei is just fucking nuts.Cercei has become so much of a cartoon character that she could be one of Preston's voices. It's lampshaded by Jaime though.What's a Davos to do? They basically took every would be Davos monologue and gave them to Lyanna Mormont. I loved Sweetrobin talking about Sam at Oldtown: "...let's be honest, haven't we been treated to a shit montage since season 4?"have you not seen his channel before? he always does a not-so-serious episode followed by a more serious q&a episode I like the idea of discussing each scene from the perspective of a fan boy and a salty book loyalist, but I cant stand those meme voicesSansa wants to reward the men who fought to take back Winterfell with Last Hearth and Karhold (what about the Dreadfort?). I presume this means she wants to give Vale Lords holdings in the North. This would give them reason to stick around in the North and remain loyal to Jon. 

They're in the North for Sansa, somebody who isn't from the Vale and Jon keeps publicly talking down, and Littlefinger, a man they don't like and is increasingly distant from Sansa. This plus Yohn Royce being a proud idiot doesn't sound like a recipe for the Vale Lords staying on Jon's side. I imagine Bronze Yohn would be much more inclined to stay in the North with Jon in spite of rudeness if he were made Lord of Karhold or something I guess I took this bit to be about the ages of the new heads of those lands? Jon's intention was honorable, but Sansa's was more realpolitik.

My only quibble with PJ was about the Hound digging in the icy ground. He's totally right about it of course, and the fact that GRRM has already written about the impracticality of it in another story, but I thought all of the Hound, Beric and Thoros stuff was so good that I was willing to suspend disbelief and just enjoy it. It was like a sequence from earlier seasons, I really bought into it. Reminded me of when I loved the show more and didn't need PJ's snark to help me enjoy it lol.Yeah like it's right fucking there. I bet kings landing can practically see the shore of dragon stone. 

It's baffling to me how the show totally ignored its strategic importance to the Lannister cause. It was seeing the map that struck me lol, I was hazy on the location but its so clear when you look right at it.at first i was mad, but now i am okay with the show punting Stannis, bashing and forgetting everything his character and house did and everything his character contributed to the plot. this is just D&D's way of throwing a temper tantrum since they hated the character and they screwed over the Northern plot when they decided to roll Stannis's and Jon's arc together. now they have to fix it, and they are not doing a good job, and they know that. trust me, they know. they just hope you'll be too distracted and hyped by thirteen year old serial killers to give a shit.I don't understand why people think it's strange Dragonstone was abandoned. People clearly knew Dany was sailing towards Westeros and I'm sure many people believed she was going land at Dragonstone (just like Jaime figuring it out). 

If I heard that the daughter of the mad king was heading towards my island with dragons, dothraki savages, and mutilated slave soldiers, the first thing I would do is hop on the first boat for the mainland. There is no reason to think that if you remained on the island that you would be spared  and most people do not want to be raped and/or pillaged. 

I wish I could have made it to the portion of the video where he discusses this but I found the voices to be intolerable after three minutes. https://i.redd.it/3f6qz2azggxy.pngYep.PJ is the only reason I still watch the show.oh i'm a reader, just don't like the tone of the videos i watched...  way too snarky.  like i said, not for me - no harm no foul.yeah, this guy's not for me.  like i said, no harm, no foul.Didn't they almost fail without onions being brought in by a smuggler? Island fortresses in real life are pretty frequently abandoned because of difficulty provisioning them and the risk of becoming a prison during a siege. They are easy to just neutralize, break the ships outside, and then go around without worrying about an army charging after you. 

Island fortresses can be good launching point for a fleet - but you wouldn't want to be besieged there especially if you are low on food. He's right about other stuff, and I do wonder if she really was pretending to be Walder Frey for two weeks.  


I wouldn't have been so annoyed if he weren't so smarmy about it though Oh good lol, I would have felt really bummed if his analyses of the Blackfyres and the part they have to play had to be revised because certain linkages in the first book wouldn't have existed yet in GRRM's fevered mind lol. 

The info came across as new in the thread, that is why I noticed it. Maybe it has been around for some time? It is impossible to keep up, and honestly I don't always try lol;)Funny how the nitpicky book obsessed asshole seem no different from Preston in most videos, and is clearly intended to be the clever one. But what's the alternative to weird behavior? Face theft is the farthest consideration. I don't think criticizing the selection of poorly-impersonated-action-figure-night-king as a narrator is nit-picking. Aside from his (understandably) low end graphical animations, it's the only substance in the video; so yes, I'd expect more than a 16 minute gag by one of the foremost ASOIAF YouTube theorists

Also, after getting a few minutes in, and seeing the opening scene breakdown, I came to this thread to see if the cartoon voices stop, and found that they don't. So I stopped watching, for the above reason.

The Frey point is a good one, surely every Frey is not a simpleton. That said, we've seen them all cower at the will of Their Lord, and no Frey to date has stood up to Lord Walder without promptly getting shut down and putting their tail back between their legs. I might have overstated the incompetence of the Freys... but I think that Arya could have said / done whatever she wanted during those two weeks as long as she was as belittling and authoritative as Walder, and nobody would have challenged their Lord with any sincerity. In my opinion, that is the most overlooked aspect of the discussion from PJs perspective, and it's a fairly important oneHe also typically does an actual serious review of the season or in Q&As as well.That's a fair point, I've enjoyed a lot of his book videos> I just don't see what the benefit is in constantly shitting all over it

hes makin moneyPretty sure he has stated that he actually doesn't mind the show and thinks the earlier season were damn good. The videos are just from a book purist pov - although Chad Summerfield is supposed to be the casual viewer who the show is arguably pandering too, I'm sure part of him does likewise enjoy the spectacle the show undoubtedly provides. And you've just repeated a tired opinion that literally tens of thousands have already stated, many times. Hasn't stopped PJ from creating something literally tens of thousands of **other** people actually love and look forward to very much. 

And FYI, many of PJ's biggest fans are people who never read the books until they started getting disappointed by the show in later seasons. PJ helped them discover the books, **and** still keep watching the show and enjoying it in a new way. So, that might count as benefits. 

What benefit exactly has come from you joining the herd calling PJ a nitpicker who shits on the show?I like that there are different opinions out there. Anyway I don't tend to watch his videos. I think that he's much more critical with other people's work than with his own theories and speculations.[removed][removed][Already warned you about this](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6o07fa/spoilers_extendedozzy_man_reviews_game_of_thrones/dkdztjm/).  An eclair too rich to finish is better than the worlds largest tastykake that that I eat over 8 years, but that's just my opinion. I'm pretty sure what Cersei means is that once she is dead Jaime will inherit, and then presumably Tyron is the rightful king lol

Shortly followed by House Lannister of Lannisport becoming the ruling house of Westeros. Or maybe Genna Lannister, but she's married in to the Freys so likely her sons are dead I thought it was a reference to what Tywin said to Jaime in season 1.Hmm, hadn't thought of that possible reference to Downfall. I'd be surprised if that is what it is, but they did use the words 'nation' and 'armada' in the dialogue, really out of place and strange, so maybe a Downfall reference was intended? 

No doubt Cersei is fucking nuts, I'm just mystified as to why D&D think that makes her interesting for episode after episode. I bet she makes it well into season 8.But then she answered that "in this case we'll build a dynasty for us". What it means and how it counters Jaime's point I don't know but apparently it was enough of an answer to Jaime.Fuck, I had to look up that up lol, I learned something today, shiny gold star for my forehead lol;) And yeah, you're right.Davos is Jon's Hand right? 

So why does he just stand by and let that whole scene happen? Given that his sons died at war, I feel like Davos might raise issue with child soldiers. He says nothing as Jon manages to get in to an argument with both Sansa and Yohn Royceayooo!It's like he is catering to 14 year old teenagers with those cringey voices (which aren't the demographic of the show). 

It felt like watching my kid play with their toys while making stupid voices for each one. I'd argue that Jon held the more practical view on the Umber and Karstark lands. The Umbers and Karstarks would have no practical reasons to give their lands away, and would just stay in their castle. Jon doesn't have the men, resources, or time to siege to major castles. It's far better to just have the Umbers and Karstarks as allies and be dine with it.If it weren't for that part not being possible in the actual story that may have been the strongest writing on the episode.I'm willing to bet Euron's fleet is going to ambush Dany's fleet whilst docked at Dragonstone and that's the big sea battle. There's no other real reason Jaime would mention that Dragonstone has deep natural harbours if we aren't going to see the fleet docked. 

But that raises questions about timeline: does that mean Euron sailed in to Blackwater Bay to King's Landing, shortly followed by Dany sailing in to Blackwater Bay to Dragonstone, but they both managed to miss one another despite being only a day apart at most? Euron seems to be in King's Landing for like an hour at best, it must be during this hour that Dany arrives on Dragonstone lol yeah lets hop on the mainland where nothing bad happenedThe show operates on the logic that soldiers follow their leaders, even monsters like Ramsay or Cersei. Not "Me IRL". What would make sense to me is Cersei putting men in the line of fire, or destroying the ports, or the Ironborn taking an empty castle.PJ is more making the point that either the Lannisters or Euron would've taken Dragonstone, it is so valuable and we all know war is coming.

This may not be the best intro to PJ if you've never watched him before, you might like going back to last season and watching the funny reviews and the serious Q&A vids. That will give you more context for PJ's characters and the jokes and how he uses them.He can be pretty out there sometimes, and pretty cynical about the show, but man does he put out some really interesting content, and he knows his stuff too.He's usually entirely dispassionate, doesn't make comments at all and it's not even a concern in his theory videos.He's literally a genius. His research methodology is somehow unbelievable and his contentions make the most ridiculous arguments compelling. Preston is sweetrobin. Always sweetrobin.

But yes he vents frustration through the nightskingYou clearly don't understand what it means to be in charge,and I don't  mean just to rule a castle,but all of the lands and the people who live on that land.Walder is old but he is the most experienced Frey there is ,the second most competent people where his sons(the two mentioned in the show got killed and baked in a pie)and besides that there are no people who know all the duties of their Lord because they were never taught(they probably had other duties).So you really think Arya could rule an entire Lordship by herself and no one would be getting even slightly suspicious over the sudden incompetence of their liege lord and not to mention the sudden disappearance of Walders two most trusted sons?Summerchild*Because there are so many more compelling ways to criticize the show than narrative deviations and plot holes. It's full of racist and sexist tropes, it clumsily betrays many of the source material's core themes, it over-relies on plot contrivances to move the story forward, they seem to forget character motivations between one season and the next. And yet all we ever hear about is how fast Littlefinger jumps around, or how Emilia Clarke doesn't change facial expressions. Come *on*.

It's lazy and uninteresting. The show was *never* going to be a perfect adaptation, so let's talk about how they've made poor creative decisions in how they've knit things together rather than just bitch about how they didn't fit everything in.>And you've just repeated a tired opinion that literally tens of thousands have already stated, many times. 

This perfectly describes what Preston and other show haters do. 

>What benefit exactly has come from you joining the herd calling PJ a nitpicker who shits on the show?

What benefit exactly has come from joining the herd and calling D&D hacks who ruin the show?He says a bajillion times that he's probably and HOPEFULLY wrong about more than half of what he speculates. Oh sorry, I didn't see this until just now. I was only going on what I understood from last season, no offense intended whatsoever!What about the 20+ year cake with no end?I'm sure it was meant that way, but in the context of having no children to actually inherit this dynasty, it was ludicrous.I would contest that Jaime just doesn't have a response to Cersei's statement. It's not like she says that and then he smiles and is happy, she says it and he continues to be conflicted.A point of that scene was that Cercei is going crazy. Jaime acts with shock and disbelief in the two scenes they spend together."a dynasty for us"

Apparently Cersei doesn't know the meaning of the word Dynasty.I think Jaime is now a wight, and his corpse handler has stopped animating his heart and brains. Otherwise, how to explain his sole second of time contemplating the death of his last son, the traitor, and moving on to strategy talk?Also, his kids were grown men right?This isn't "war" in the traditional sense. I think it's clear that Davos would prefer all children to stay away from the fighting but that's likely not possible in this case. The children won't be soldiers as much as they will be helping to defend their own homes. Without modern  transportation and logistics there isn't really anywhere else for them to go. > It felt like watching my kid play with their toys while making stupid voices for each one.

Funny, that's how I felt watching GoT from season five onwards.His mimicry of dialogues from the book also starts off as awful and then becomes addictive. Preston fanboys aren't liking this but it's exactly true. This shit is entirely juvenile. [removed]Yes it makes sense. But as Varys says, even in show, power lies where men think it does, so maybe Sansa is concerned how the northern lords will see Jon's decision. 

But since show lords are completely baffling in terms of motivation lol, what I think the scene is really about is purely setting up some sort of rivalry between Jon and Sansa. The reasons are mostly irrelevant, many fans just want to see them fight. And it gives Littlefinger a reason to still exist lol.Yeah, and I've seen good comments about that and I pretty much agree. And it was sort of unearned too. 

I guess for me most of the writing in the episode up to that point was so bad, especially the Cercei/Jaime/Leatherdaddy stuff, that I was very happy to take this wonderful little segment as presented lol. Instead of hearing D&D coming out of the mouths of actors in costumes, I felt like I was hearing characters in their world and in their words. I thought the dialogue of the whole sequence was really good and worked for me along with the great performances.All I can say is, the answers are out there lol;) The fleets passing in the night? No idea how that happened, seems incredibly unlikely, right? But we know that timelines are a weak point in the show and most people don't seem to mind, not much incentive for it all to make sense. Based on Gilly's timewarping baby, it is really hard to tell how any of the events of the episode relate to each other along the same time line. The sabotage ports view/torch the Castle move by Cersei so no one else can have I could see. But I don't see how the Greyjoys would have the spare resources to stock a castle for a siege. They "do not sow" so I'd imagine the resources on they carry on their ships are spare as is. Also, whoever they throw in that castle means less men on the ships, which I'd argue is the greatest strength. I've watched his theory videos before and found some of them enjoyable, even those I thought to be a stretch, but the voices in this one I thought were overkill. 

The reason I don't think it's crazy for neither the ironborn or Lannisters to have taken Dragonstone is because it offers very little resources. Yes, it's a great strategic location to hold as a defensive position but as Jaime discusses, the Lannisters need food and resources. It's why they will probably go and attack the reach and it's lands first. As for the Greyjoys, they just built 1000 ships and are the best naval force. To go take the castle and set up for a siege basically makes those 1000 ships useless and plays against their strengths. 

Additionally, it's not like Dragonstone will have been stocked up with food and resources for a siege, everything will have been taken when it was abandoned. Do the greyjoys or Lannisters really have the resources to stock the castle so that it can withstand a siege. The greyjoys don't farm and the Lannisters are low on food as is. okay... i didn't like what i saw, so...?  like i've said three times now, no harm no foul.  i'm sure he'll be just fine without my views - he's obviously been doing fine without them before earlier this evening.Who said that Arya was ruling over the Twins for an extended period of time? We are given no reason to believe that more than a few days have passed since she killed Walder, and in those few days it's doubtful that there was very much actual ruling to do.Queen in the North> Because there are so many more compelling ways to criticize the show than narrative deviations and plot holes. It's full of racist and sexist tropes, it clumsily betrays many of the source material's core themes, it over-relies on plot contrivances to move the story forward, they seem to forget character motivations between one season and the next. 

This is so much more compelling than your first post. And I absolutely agree with you. On pretty much every point. Hell, if you even know of a youtuber who tackles the issues of the show in the ways you listed, post the link, I'd love to see it. I know of only one podcast that tried it last season, I don't think it is even around now. There are essays and bloggers and tumblrs that do, and I read them when I find them.

Where I disagree is that you think PJ is lazy and uninteresting, or that his snarky episode review with its quirky annoying characters is the place for the kind of critical review that you want. 

I think of his work more as snarky, clever and humorous therapy. It allows me to get through the social necessity of my having to watch the show with family and friends, reminds me that there are many others who aren't slavishly in love with it no matter what. And in that sense, its funny and accurate and useful to point out jetpacks and Deadpan Dany and the other stuff show fanatics call nitpicking simply in order to dismiss it. 

The fact is, show apologists find ways of honeypotting virtually every single thing the show does, even its most blatantly awful aspects. PJ offers an antidote. And it comes from his love of the story and the books.

I'm sure you are aware of PJ's Q&A vids, they tackle more of the 'poor creative decisions' as well as the failures to convey character and themes of the books. I don't mind at all that he links his own theories into his analysis. All youtubers do that. And in his separate theory videos he goes into themes of the books and GRRM himself a great deal, as well as his earlier writings. Nobody else wants to talk about the 1000 Worlds, because they are fanatic about some simplistic idea of fantasy. And I'm sure you know that too. 

PJ is a rather rare voice in ASOIAF fandom. To have him just fit in with everyone else truly would be lazy and uninteresting. I hope you can see that, even if he's not offering what you wish somebody would.

> What benefit exactly has come from joining the herd and calling D&D hacks who ruin the show?

He provides logically consistent arguments for almost all of his criticisms, and points out exactly why  he thinks the plot lines are nonsensical. If you think that people are just "joining the herd", why don't you provide counterpoints instead of just calling everyone you disagree with a "hater"?What benefit? Standing up for art, as is his passion. Are you kidding me? He's a lone voice screaming in a chorus of fanboys.[removed]Qyburn shenanigans? There's no way Jaime doesn't defect or at least sabotage Cersei before season's out Because he was never particularly close to Tommen, or any of his other children in the first place? Davos? Shit yeah Matthos was an adult. And his only son. Ok ignore me. Now I get why everybody is in favour of child soldiers. It also makes sense, given that the last Long Night lasted a generation, that everyone capable of holding a sword or bow is trained to use it now so they can use them well years down the line. Doesn't he have free speech to mock a series he feels is so degraded it has no logic anymore by making memes for the review?Comments in this chain have been removed per our [civility policy](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy).[removed]I love it when he's explaining some of his theories and he leads it with "I know it seems that ____ is happening, but that literally makes no sense." or something along the lines of "How could that possibly be true? That's just dumb."

He's pretty much indirectly saying that if his theories are wrong, George is dumb as fuck and he makes a bunch of mistakes. I suppose I'd argree with thatGilly's baby having started ageing now it's not around Sam all the time just confirms the theory that it is in fact Sam that is slowing down time around him If they have the ressources on their ships to do their shit even without any naval base of theirs within months of travel, they have the ressouirces to leave a small occupying force in Dragonstone and still do their shit.I can see why the Ironborn wouldn't take a castle due to We Do Not Sow bla bla bla. But if you're Cersei, would you prefer fending off a huge attack from an your own palace and a huge overpopulated capital city, or from a rock in the middle of the sea whose sole purpose is to be a nice little fortress? Not to mention the current fitness of Dany's forces is probably far from optimal after a such a voyage (shouldn't the Dothraki be pretty sea sick?).But then why would Dany want Dragonstone for her fleet? I mean the show was clearly setting up some emotional 'homecoming', but is that supposed to be the sole reason she goes there? Wouldn't Tyrion have advised otherwise if there were better places for them to go? 

But here we go honeypotting lol. D&D have already demonstrated that they make decisions based on a lot of things other than the story making much sense except on the surface. They wanted the silent dramatic homecoming, not another battle or even a surrender, so that is what happened.Exactly. After all that's what conviction is, not doubting your own theories when providing an objective analysis.This subreddit is filled with people who obsessively criticize the show. [removed]Only stannis and Devan are kids and they're alive. Anyway the point is not that he's pro child soldiers but that family experience isn't the reason why he isn't.Aw muffin[removed]I think I've mostly given up on looking for the sort of politics that I saw and loved in the first few seasons. I don't pay as much attention to the conniving now, since character motivations and choices seem to fit some other agenda, rather than something internal to the world they inhabit. The show can still seduce me with a portrayal of drama, I feel the tension from the music and the film making, but I don't try to make sense of it so much, I slide along the surface it creates.No doubt. But does exposure to all that human feces have an impact on Sam's spacetime warping abilities? What affect might it be?U could argue that dany has dragons.

There is no castle i  westeros you could hold against dragons except of the rock. So whats the point in taking dragonstone?

Kingslanding on the other hand. Its a city. THE city. If dany wants to rule over westeros she can not just burn it down so easy as she can burn down dragonstone or any other castle.

Trying to hold dragonstone is a waste of resourcesI think it's a good launching location to launch an attack on Westeros and it's one of the best defensive castles in Westeros. It's where Aegon the conqueror launched his to conquer Westeros. I just think given the circumstances of the other houses at the moment, I understand them not devoting the resources to holding the castle. Yes, it would have been helpful could they have spared it, but I can also see why they wouldn't have devoted such resources. 

I myself have my complaints with the show, but the fact that Dragonstone is empty would have to rank near the bottom of that list, yet I see many acting as if it was the worst decision ever. As a minority perhaps. The show is back on tv his a fanboy sub for the next 8 weeks. Thanks for the downvote.[removed][removed]Well, we know that Sam is getting dumber. He's had one conversation with Stannis ever, and it was about Dragonglass on Dragonstone. Why did Sam forget? It's obvious. The fumes from the shit are giving him brain damage, but this is by design. If you notice, Sam is the only person we see doing these chores. It's not all the trainee Maesters, it's just Sam. They're making Sam deal with shit so it gives him memory loss. But why would they do this? It's simple: 

Bloodraven. 

We know from the second and third Dunk & Egg books that Bloodraven is a widely mistrusted figures. He has spies all around. The Faith hates him for being a bastard and a kinslayer. The Faith and the Citadel have long been connected, as both once lived in Oldtown. You would think that the Citadel and the Faith have almost opposing goals, but they don't. They both have very conservative views, and want to keep things as they were or even reverse time. Neither of them desire progress. We've mentioned that the Faith hates Bloodraven, but why does the Citadel? We can presume for three reasons: 

We learn from many sources but most obviously Archmaester Marwyn in the last Sam chapter in Feast that the Citadel hates magic, Targaryens, and dragons. 

- Bloodraven is zealously anti-Blackfyre. He personally murders Daemon Blackfyre and his two sons. He disappears Daemon II after the Second Rebellion. He invites Aenys Blackfyre out of exile to King's Landing, only to have him executed once he came. Whilst the Citadel are presumably not Blackfyre supporters, they are anti-Targaryen. The harder Bloodraven works to ensure Targaryen survival and stability, the less at risk the Targaryens are. The Citadel hates Targaryens and obviously would resent Bloodraven for so efficiently ensuring their continued rule. 

- Bloodraven's supposed fascination with dragons likely just comes from him being an extreme Targaryen legitimist. Bringing back dragons would be a severe blow not only to his Blackfyre foes, but to any who wish to question Targaryen rule. Plus Bloodraven bringing back dragons would undo the hard work of the Citadel when they caused the Dance of the Dragons and then afterwards poisoned the remaining dragons with help from their allies the Faith. But how would Bloodraven succeed in resurrecting dragons? The scariest (and most relevant) thing about him. 

- Bloodraven is magic. Everybody knows it, kinda. They know he sees all and hears all. People presume he does this through some Varys-like endless network of informants and spies, but we know it's not that. Bloodraven is connected to the Children of the Forest and the weirwood trees. He sees all in Westeros through its trees and animals. This is why his power is inescapable in the Seven Kingdoms, but the Blackfyres are able to escape to the Free Cities without issue. 

But how is this relevant to Sam? 

Once he was done being Hand to the King, Bloodraven joined the Night's Watch. This is presumably of course because he is friends with the Children of the Forest and knows about the eventual coming of the Second Long Night. Bloodraven even rises to be Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, before disappearing north of the Wall to live in his cave with Leaf. The Night's Watch are, due to their connection to Bloodraven, mistrusted by the Citadel. There is much evidence for this. Not least Archmaested Slughorn's dismissal of the Night's Watch's core purpose to defend against threats beyond the Wall in the recent episode. See also: the fact they sent Maester Aemon to the Wall, because they don't like Targaryens and they don't like the Night's Watch, so they put them both as far away from Oldtown as they possibly could. AND Archmaester Brigette Jones' Dad knows Sam has been north of the Wall and killed a White Walker. That's too close to magic and Bloodraven for the Citadel.   

So they're going to keep Sam around, but set him about working with so much shit the smell gives him brain damage. Eventually they can send him back to the Watch, as intelligent as Aegon Frey and no longer being a useful servant of the Watch or Bloodraven. Sam however is persisting. This is because his aforementioned ability to bend time is prolonging the process. 

Ironically, this all could backfire. We see particularly in Bran's story the cannibalism lets a person absorb another's soul. We also get this from Varamyr Sixskins in Dance; he cannibalised his teacher in the ways of Warging, and absorbed even more of his power and knowledge. Putting Sam around all that Maester shit is dangerous. If Sam were to, for some reason, consume all that Maester shit, it stands to reason that he would gain some of their intelligence. That would undo all the work they've done exposing him to the fumes. Plus making him more intelligent could lead to him telepathically connecting to Bloodraven, or even give him mastery of his ability to warg the space-time continuum itself in ways Bran and Bloodraven could only dream. 

EDIT: not proud of this tbh
Burning down Dragonstone means Dany loses her best sea base in Westeros, so she probably wouldn't do that (or if she gets the idea some of her advisors would quickly tell her that no, you can't invade the capital in one movement from Mereen). Even if she does destroy Dragonstone, you have at least denied her the castle and the easy acces to King's Landing, which makes surviving her invasion that much more likely than gifting her the castle and playing "Battle of Blackwater 2 - No surprise reinforcements from two armies to save your ass this time".> yet I see many acting as if it was the worst decision ever. 

Because they just allowed Dany a foothold into Westeros and a base of operations with which to launch her attack. It makes no fucking sense.

Is it that big a deal? Nah. But I get how it is throwing some people. D&D are often trigger happy with their streamlining for the sake of expediency, and sometimes they take it a bit too far where it borders on not holding up to a lick of scrutiny.I think what is harder to explain for me is Euron passing it by, despite the case you make. But honestly the military strategy in the show is very low on my list of interests lol, so I count other things as worse decisions too. 

And I'm serious about the honeypotting, a lot of good arguments are made here by many fans that seem far more careful and intelligent than what turns out to be the reasons given by D&D later on. [removed]> Ironically, this all could backfire. We see particularly in Bran's story the cannibalism lets a person absorb another's soul. We also get this from Varamyr Sixskins in Dance; he cannibalised his teacher in the ways of Warging, and absorbed even more of his power and knowledge. Putting Sam around all that Maester shit is dangerous. If Sam were to, for some reason, consume all that Maester shit, it stands to reason that he would gain some of their intelligence. That would undo all the work they've done exposing him to the fumes. Plus making him more intelligent could lead to him telepathically connecting to Bloodraven, or even give him mastery of his ability to warg the space-time continuum itself in ways Bran and Bloodraven could only dream.

Fucking brilliant. And it explains the necessity of the shit montage, establishing both Sam's growing proximity to the power source that could change everything, but also showing his increasing hunger for it. Each time he retches, he actually needs more food as his belly depletes. Eventually, he will be too tired to wander off to the larder for replenishment, but instead will begin to partake of the shit of secret knowledge.

Edit: This was fun lol, but maybe a bit borderline. If it gets deleted along with the above, I'm okay with it;)Why would a pirate king, with lands of his own and a 1000 ships and pirate sailors, take a very fortified castle?

he would have to supply it for a siege, that would take resources that do not benefit him. He would have to man it with his sailors, they aren't castle soldiers. He then puts himself on the hit lists of those lords in westeros, because a pirate king set up in the bum fuck north wouldn't worry them but him setting himself up in striking distance to most of the larger cities and between essos and westeros would cause worry.

he is going with a huge horde of people and ships to raid the shit out of places, he is using his fleet to make himself useful to the queen and will be given land that way.

this way, he will continue to be able to do what he wants, get that benefit and get the benefit of gratitude.[removed]Mark my words. The final scene of the series will be as follows: 

Westeros has fallen. Consumed by winter and the Walkers. We see that the mouth of the Mander is frozen over, and the Citadel is being destroyed a wight dragon. But hope is not truly lost. 

Cut to the hill nearby where Sam and Gilly and Baby Sam all first laid eyes upon Oldtown. There is Baby Sam, who is sat, consuming Sam's corpse. What's actually happening is that Sam has transferred his consciousness to Baby Sam because Sam's original body has been destroyed by all the shit he's eaten. Luckily, Sam's body being intact means it still slows time, but Baby Sam is eating the corpse so he can gain the power if need be.

With Baby Sam is Bran, whom Meera managed to safely pull the entire length of Westeros always just slightly ahead of the Walkers. Baby Sam and Bran are working together to end the White Walker threat once and for all. Bran will go back in time and warg Leaf, so as to stop her creating the first Other. He can only do this because his time travel powers are heightened because he too has been feasting on Sam's corpse.

They are guarded by Ned Umber, who turned out to by the most loyal man to Jon there ever was, and by far his best child soldier. 

And it happens. Bran sends his consciousness back in time and brain rapes Leaf. She snaps the prototype dragonglass converter that turns humans in to White Walkers. This averts the Long Night, and totally changes the course of history on Planetos. We (the audience) briefly see a montage of what show depictions of Victarion Greyjoy, Jon Connington, Arianne Martell, and many others so brutally murdered by D&D would have looked like. Then the screen cuts white, then to static. Your TV catches fire. The end. There's precedent for book Euron taking shit islands that are worth nothing and can't possibly be held. He takes the Shields in either Feast or Dance and then I'm pretty sure confesses in the Aeron Winds preview chapter that he has no intention to hold themLook at the map again. Dragonstone is perfect for staging what Euron wants to do: raid areas on behalf of Cercei, plus protect Cercei in King's Landing. Also, he'd be holding a fortress that he absolutely should deny to Dany. If Dragonstone mattered to Aegon, why the hell wouldn't it matter to Euron? At least that is the logic that seems sensible to me. 

He hasn't actually earned any benefits or gratitude from Cercei just yet. In the coming episodes we may come to learn just how valuable Dragonstone is to whoever holds it.Beautiful. And, sadly, perhaps better than what we'll actually see on screen. But does book Euron wear eye liner and leather hotpants? See, the show rules.no, dragonstone is bad for staging for euron. The areas that she wants him to raid are not influenced by dragonstone. the areas it is in are mostly loyal to her. The areas she wants him to be able to strike are the north, dorne, tyrell  and essos...

Dragonstone mattered to Aegon because he came with a fleet to take over the rest as well. He manned the castle, he used it as a place to legitimize the dragonriders to the landed folk.

Euron's fleet is a raiding fleet. 

oh, he hasn't yet. but that isn't the point of his fleet. It is to legitimize his kingship, punish the ironborn that ran off, and to get some sick booty for his people. He now gets to raid people in the seven kingdoms without everyone kicking his ass back to pyke. That is his goal. that is the benefit he is getting. Basically, it is a Letter of Marque or privateering. legalized pirating.

if she wins, he wins. If she loses, he will just been seen as a pirate and his people will have already got what they wanted.Makes me think euron will burn the library and help start the dark ages for the realmI think there's a lot of results that could spin out of Euron burning the Citadel and sacking Oldtown, including but not limited to:

* Euron summoning eldritch forces with a blood sacrifice of his brother and the woman carrying his child while the Hightowers cast spells of their own
* The order of the Maesters relocating
* A massive exodus of refugees to Highgarden
* The destruction of one of the main forces for a "scientific" understanding of the world, allowing for a move back to an understanding rooted in mysticism
* An enormous blow to the authority of the Tyrells
* The Ironborn finally establishing themselves as major players in the ongoing war

Any of the above is possible at this point, but for the moment I'm more concerned with what this means for both Sam as a character, and also how it will propel Sam back into the story at large. I think there's a very real chance Sam could be a key supporting player in the endgame of ASOIAF, but in order for that to happen he's going to need to be armed with some substantial knowledge, to say the least. The Citadel is his best place to find it, but just what, exactly, will he find and how will he use it?The dragon horn will never be in the show. When will people stop bringing it up as a possibility?Lots of people doing the same thing they did last year with Arya and the stab wounds. 

Going to be quite a bit of disappointment.Yes! I was hoping someone would wanna theorize this!! 

So imho, there are three options:

Dragonstone isn't far from King's Landing, and the S7 preview's showed a ship battle with Euron and Yara/Theon. Though that's a pretty serious fight to begin the season with. However, Euron isn't a master of the 15 seas for nothing (Wasn't that Victarion in the books?? Gods I wish he was in the show...sounds like such a BA mofo). I could imagine a raid, killing or capturing a dragon, or some ships, possibly killing Theon or Yara. As some have mentioned, the horn hasn't been brought up yet, so I doubt it'll make an appearance, but this is just a theory.

Dorne is next closest, and I agree with other commenters, this is most likely the best choice. The previews for the season oddly ignored Dorne altogether, so I have a feeling they are going to be relatively uneffective this season. A few sandsnake heads would no doubt please Cersei greatly, and great big Dornish army in the field would prove too much for the Lannisters with all the other trouble in the realm.

Finally, Highgarden. It's a bit of a trek, but Olena Tyrell is probably one of the top 3 on Cersie's shit list. Not only that, but gaining control of Highgarden, likely now the richest in wealth and in food in the realm (Tywin was embarassingly borrowing a lot of gold from them before/after the wedding, and Jamie even said their armies would desperately need food). Also, taking out Olena would likely weaken Dorne substantially. And just going back a bit, Euron would have no doubt scouted both Highgarden and Dorne on his way from Pike. The Tryells also lost a lot of men in the War of Three Kings, at the battle of the black water and after the assassination of Renly.

I suppose a final theory could be soley horn based, but again, I doubt it. There was talk of the horn that could knock down The Wall, so magical horns do have a place in the TV series...but with ample time to have brought it up in Season 6 with all that happened on Pike, it's unlikely.

Anyway! Those are my thoughts!! Expand, criticize, or agree!! I figured the sand snakes in return for what they did to her daughter. regarding the show - I would find the horn theory a lot easier to believe if it had ever been mentioned in the show. Since they haven't said much of anything about either the horn of winter or dragonbinder i suspect that the show isn't going to suddenly introduce them (I could certainly be wrong there but i suspect most show watchers that haven't read the books will have no clue about any magical horns and if they were going to introduce them in the show there would have been some introduction at some point in the past 6 seasons)
He is going to get Tyrion.Tyrions head I imagine.Ellaria and Sand SnakesI think all your points have some validity to them. I do believe they made it ambiguous enough to be any of those options, and the horn is somewhat a deus ex machina at this point, but with some stuff getting pulled from the books nowadays I'd be okay with it. The reason I do think it's the horn is that Euron is somehow able to pull one of the dragons from her so that way it's not laughably one-sided in the sense that it's 3 dragons and an army vs. an army. Yeah, they're not gonna bring up random mythical devices this late in the show. It's most likely one or two sandsnakes or Ellaria.It would have to be somewhat believable since Jorah already just snatched him to take to Dany. I think Ellaria will be taken in the naval battle from the trailer. If Tyrion does get taken I'd be shocked, I'm sure there are enough Unsullied to spare so he can have an armed guard if he were to be out and roaming in Dragonstone. I think it will be much more useful alive.It's going to happen but it feels like a cop out. 

I mean, whatever Cersei is going to do to them is probably awful, but killing the most unlikable characters on the show isn't that upsetting for most people. I can see it happening. Sam reads about it in a book and the iron fleet sack Oldtown.lol not another rescue mission plsDare I say, death by wildfire? I'm sure show Jaime would notice that.I think that's way too crazy to happen in the show though.Pliz george... fix this. The tinfoil is getting off the rails here...Simpler idea: Bloodraven is using a glass candle to send visions to multiple people to manipulate them into fulfilling his plan (a repeat of Summerhall).

What if the dead Joanna was a faceless man?
And that's why she wears a maskI just don't get Joanna's motivation for all of this. Why would her purpose be to train as a shadowbinder half a world away to send obscure visions to someone who isn't even her blood. Why? Whenever I analyse theories, there has to be an in-universe logical motivation. There also has to be a narrative purpose, which I also don't get. 

I do think it's a neat theory with some great evidence. I just don't get Joanna's reason.Plausibility aside, this was really interesting to read. Good job. Great info and presentation.

Now why do you think the Martells would visit at such an obscure time? And why would they have an open spot on the boat?
I don't deny that Joanna could be quaithe. My findings on the children are a little bit different than the things you link.
Yes I believe tywin to be sterile, and Joanna and Aerys maybe with tywins blessing because he could not have kids.. Gave birth to Jaime and cersei.
But after duskendale and Aerys going mad he wasn't the same and Joanna wouldn't love him the same.. And that is when tyrion is conceived.
So now why is tyrion different looking than his siblings? If they were all fathered by tywin or Aerys ?
And why would a dorne envoy with an open spot come to tyrions birth?the cabin was not for cersei or Jaime tywin would not lose them.. It was for joanna and tyrion.

Tywin would never hurt Lannister blood and I don't think Joanna died in child birth, I think he realized what had happened and banished her from casterly Rock. 
So have you been able to deduce what I'm trying to imply? There is one Subtle but hugely important detail in the series and you can extrapolate Tyrions true paternity.
And it will be an interesting and wtf plot twist in the series in my opinion.Wow, I LOVE so many parts of this theory. Now that you mention it, I think the Martells visiting, the single empty cabin, Tyrion noting their arrival at Casterly Rock as being strange (almost inappropriate given Joanna's death) are all extremely suspect. But also Joanna being spirited away from Casterly Rock totally mirrors Rohanne Webber's disappearance. Considering that Rohanne is Johanna's grandmother (their names even sound alike) I think it could be serious foreshadowing that Johanna isn't actually dead. However, just because Johanna isn't dead, doesn't mean that she is Quaithe. I prefer the theory that Quaithe is Shiera Seastar. I mean, at the most, Johanna would have had like 20 years to get to Asshai and begin learning. But the other people who we seen that have mastery of magic have been at it for centuries. I mean, think about how old both Melisandre and Bloodraven are. Shiera would have had much more time to learn how to use the glass candles and other magic. Also, her character was already historically connected to magic, whereas Johanna was not. However, now you have me thinking that Johanna could be hiding out in a place where she has access to Shiera's glass candle and, through Shiera's guidance, was able to communicate with Jaime. Think about the difference in tone between Jaime's vision and Dany's. Johanna tells Jaime about personal family stuff, very subjective, motherly and insightful. Quaithe's visions to Dany were much more cryptic, objective and prophetic. In tone, they have much more in common with the other prophecies (Ghost of High Heart, Patchface) than Johanna's motherly advice to Jaime. This makes me think they were coming from two different people. So that means it would have been Johanna in Jaime's vision, and Quaithe/Shiera in Dany's.

(Hmm... just thinking here... but could there be some connection between Marwin the Maege, Sarella Sand (Alleras the Sphinx),the glass candles at the Citadel and Johanna/Shiera/Quaithe? After all, according to your theory, the Martells helped Johanna to escape and Sarella is a Martell bastard. Marwin has glass candles and we know that is how Quaithe is communicating, probably Johanna too.)

Anyway, you've given me so much to think about, what a great post!!!!!!Wait, Joanna finds Jaimie and cersei fucking at casterly rock...when they are 6 or 7 years old? She died birthing Tyrion, who is seven years younger. Even in Westeros those pieces don't add up.

But you make some other interesting points. I always curious about the fate of Lynora Hill. I honestly thought that she could have been married to the Clegane's father or something. 

Although, I'm not entirely sure about Joanna willingly engaging in an affair with Aerys. Everyone seems to know that he lusted after her and that she and Tywin were a loving couple. But given not everything is what it seems, you might be right on that part.I like it. You've got some interesting data, suggestive of a seed, but I have a feeling it's an *abandoned seed*. Because there's a problem. 

Wouldn't Joanna-Quiath be concerned about Dany as a pretender who could kill her children? It's no secret that the Lannisters betrayed House Targaryen when it suited them. As such, Jaime (kingkiller and knight of Robert) and Cersei (wife to Robert), were associated with the *previous regime*. Dany is going to install a new regime, clearing out loyalists to previous regimes. That's bad for Jaime and Cersei, Joanna's children. 

So if Quaith were concerned about her children's health, then she'd probably say something like, "Yo, defect to Dany" rather than leaving them to die to her. Quaith might even, say, poison Dany - rather than help her.>Also, the infrequency of Joanna's pregnancies must be considered. It took her over 2 years to get pregnant with Cercei and Jaime. It took another 7 years to get pregnant with Tyrion. Partially, this can be explained by her presence at Casterly Rock while Tywin was at King's Landing. However, it does not help his case.
Many suspect that either the twins, or Tyrion, or both, were fathered by Aerys. His marriage certainty produced children, but as has been covered over and over, it is not clear if they are his.

This also has fun implications because Joff is the seed of Targaryen mad blood, which makes him the new mad targaryen king and I like that. Alright, how do we do the nominations for the Best Of awards?

I think we have a nominee for Best New Theory for the 2017 round here.  This is exceptionally well-developed.You have way too much time on your hands.

She's dead.I am so excited that this sub can still produce awesome, well thought out and genuinelly fascinating theories in 2017Unique theory thanks for sharing. I'm not a fan of the format though because it's hard to tell which parts are pulled from the text and which parts are theory. I don't have time to pull up all the quotes that should have been provided so I can't really give this a fair consideration.I think you make some unsupported leaps, but you're on to something. Here's my spitball off your idea:

Tywin clearly has his suspicions of Tyrion's paternity, at least. And while Jaime and Cersei seem prototypical in their Lannister features, this mirrors Jon Snow who is remarked as being the most obviously Stark-like of all Ned's children. Tyrion's odd chimerism (his too pale hair, his oddly mismatched eyes) may have been all the evidence Tywin needed that Aerys (who was himself the product of dozens of generations of incest) may have sowed the seed that spawned such rotten fruit. 

As you frame the Tywin/Aerys dynamic, Tywin has been around court long enough that he would have easily known of Joanna's prior relationship with Aerys. Thus, was Tywin's wedding of Joanna an explicit attempt to one up Aerys?  That's a dangerous proposition. While Tywin may have felt that he impressed a "big/little brother" relationship onto Aerys during the Ninepenny campaign, Aerys is a newly minted king at the time of Tywin's marriage, and considering his own history with uppity subordinates, I don't think Tywin would have deliberately baited Aerys to such a degree. Instead, what if Joanna deliberately seduced Tywin at Aerys's request, so that Aerys could continue his tryst with Joanna, and perhaps intentionally cuck his over proud Hand in the process?  This has some elements of Aerys's delusional thinking: his inability to foresee the negative consequences and his lack of attention to detail in thinking his plans all the way through. On the wedding night, Aerys overplays his hand and nearly goes all Prima Noctae, not out of jealousy, but out of Joffrey-esque  hubris that his plan is working perfectly (plus wine, plus he is crazier than Joffrey, and also his grandfather ;) ).  Rhaella, Joanna, or Momma Martell (or all three) eventually realize that Tywin would murder Aerys and the rest of them if he ever realized he was the butt of the joke, reflected in Joanna's comment in Jaime's vision that Tywin hated to be laughed at more than anything. So Joanna is sent home to the Rock, but as you note she has to spend some time with Tywin if she is to bear "his" children.

My suspicion is that Aerys fathered the twins, but forcibly and against Joanna's will, but Joanna deliberately hid this fact because she knew that Tywin would split the Realm apart to avenge such a transgression. Around this time, Joanna came to see how demented and selfish Aerys was, and how for all of Tywin's ruthlessness, the Realm was stable, prosperous, and peaceful under his tireless administration. Tyrion is the child Joanna bore for Tywin out of love.  But Tywin's escalating rivalry with Aerys, combined with ceaseless rumors, had made Tywin overly suspicious. When Tyrion was born deformed and with strange colorations he became the avatar for all of Tywin's insecurities, and Tywin convinced himself that Joanna had, in fact, betrayed him. That she was just a whore, like the one his father had fallen for, and that no woman could ever truly love him (sound familiar?). After her death, he began whoring in earnest via the secret tunnel, because he was sure that this was the only honest relationship he could have with a woman (again, just like Tyrion).

So here's the real kicker: does Tywin kill Joanna in a jealous rage?  If Joanna were dead, that would explain why she appears to Jaime as a Silent Sister, because in Jaime's religious upbringing they are highly symbolic of death. Then this is a case of an actual dead soul, crossing the void to relay an important message to a loved one, probably not impossible by the series's established supernatural concepts. But as you point out, the dream is too vivid, she seems very present to Jaime, and he has but one hand, which are interesting suggestions that a more concrete vision is taking place. So what if Tywin could not bring himself to kill Joanna as Tyrion had done with Shae?  What if he instead forces her to join the Silent Sisters and fakes her death as you suggest?  Then Joanna could have been around many key events in the series with none the wiser, since the Silent Sisters are treated as sacrosanct by nearly everyone in Westeros!  Tywin goes on to attempt his revenge on Aerys via Duskendale, but is stymied by the courageousness of Ser Barristan, he tries to turn everyone else against Aerys via the Harrenhal tourney but is thwarted by Varys, and he looses Jaime to the Kingsguard. He finally decides he can't win, but he certainly won't prop Aerys up any longer and waits for tragedy to play itself out. The moment he hears that Rhaegar is dead, Tywin knows that the Targaryen Dynasty has no hope, and he rushes to exact his revenge.  Maybe Joanna ends up in Oldtown at the Starry Sept, and there comes into contact with Marwyn the Mage, and somehow learns of the glass candles from him that way?  (I don't buy that she's Quaithe). Cersei is now recapping her blood father Aerys, and Jaime has become a sort of parallel to Aemon the Dragonknight. Tyrion, meanwhile, was reviled by his true father and nursed on Tywin's spite, when coupled with the stigma of his deformity has caused him to be even more self-conscious, insecure, and vengeful then Tywin was. Holy shit. Jaime's going to be the kingslayer and the queenmaker. We really need new book, the tinfoil is reaching critical mass...I don't know if it's true, but I like it!

The theory brings the Targaryens, Martells, Quaithe, and Marwyn together. I feel like this could blend well with a theory of mine, in which Sarella is the one who tipped off Doran about Arianne's plot through the use of Marwyn's glass candle. Perhaps Marwyn knows Sarella's identity and is allowing her the use of the glass candle in order to aid the Martells' master plan.Everyone is someone else in this seriesThat's some grade A valyrian tinfoil. Well done M83.i like a lot of things about this theory except your belief that targaryens are genetically engineered to fall in love with each other lmao. cersei and jaime being in love is i think a comment on their ideals being reflected in each other. dynastic incest is meant to keep the bloodline pure, and there are a lot of real-world examples of interbreeding (even brother/sister). there are also many instances where ruling targaryen pairs weren't at all happy in the union. they were forced to wed their closest relative for dynastic reasons, it's a learned trait.[deleted]My only problem with this is  , is Martin really that good of a writer ? I mean you present the theory fantastically and if he did he would have had to think this up fairly early on wouldn't he? Coupled with a few other awesome theories that sound and feel so true here. He would have to be a mad fucking genius to pull it off.These are all great arguments for Jaime/Cersei (and maybe Tyrion) being Aerys's kids, but quite a leap to then suggest Joanna fakes her own death in order to escape CR and become a shadow binder so she can one day help Danaerys...I'm such a cynic I want to rip this apart, but I really can't. There's some good stuff in here. It's foily as shit...but it has an internal logic to it!Never heard this one! If GRRM had spent as much time over the last few weeks on TWoW as you've obviously spent on this theory the book would probably be done.With all of these theories proposing that characters presumed to be dead are actually alive, I'd thought if there's one whose death we could be certain of it would be Joanna Lannister. Now, I'm not even sure about her. Thanks a lot, OP.Interesting theory and well reasoned, even though I disagree with much of it.

1. I have a very difficult time believing Tywin, a control freak, could have Joanna's death faked right under his nose. Just doesn't jive with everything else we know about him. 

2. One other point is there a history of "disappearing" mothers to heirs in the Lannistar family. See Rohanne, from Dunk and Egg, Lord Tytos and Lord Jason's mother, "vanishing" decades before without a trace. 

3. I quite like your theory on the Martell's and their odd trip (which is weird) as well on the Jamie's odd "dream" of his mother. There may very well be something there I hadn't considered. 

4. On a personal note, I hate the entire theory of Aerys+Joanna = C, J, or T because all of those secret Targs would just add too much drama to the story. That being said, the theories behind them have valid points and they may very well be true so I won't discredit due to personal feelings... but I really would hate it. Tyrion's entire arc falls so flat for me if he's not actually Tywin's son. This is a great write up. But I reserve judgment until more information is given. I think it would be unusual for Tywin to have not seen the body of Joanna being buried. I think it would be very unusual for him to go along with the plot. And I highly doubt he'd raise the children if he thought they were not his. It seems fairly certain that he believed Tyrion to be his son (whether or not that is true). It also seems very odd that Joanna would abandon her children in favor of her friend and her friend's children. Ciuld Shiera Seastar still be Quaithe in this theory?something to add to your theory: Tywin never marries again after Joanna dies. what if that's because he knew it would be pointless? in other words, what if Tywin is sterile? perhaps Joanna's fooling around was a tightly guarded secret meant to allow Joanna to get pregnant by another man while the kid could still be reasonably seen as Tywin's, to carry on the Lannister name?A good ol' book theory. Love it.So everyone who has ever died is alive as someone else? Joanna is definitely alive. I've written about this before in some detail. Her relationship with the Princess of Dorne is indeed critical, and you're right that Tywin didn't father anyone.

reddit version [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/49jq2d/spoilers_everything_joanna_lannister_the_princess/) and [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/4aon9d/spoilers_everything_aeryss_lovers_die_septa/)

***
[wordpress version here](https://asongoficeandtootles.wordpress.com/2016/03/13/joanna-lannister-the-princess-of-dorne-gargoyles-chimeras-minotaurs-elia-oberyn-and-lost-tongues-mega-tinfoil-essay-pt-2-of-3/)
***

I have an updated version completed of this theory completed with lots more evidence for certain elements but backing off on some of the stuff because of some other new pieces I think are critical. I haven't posted it yet.

FWIW I don't believe Joanna is Quaithe, however, although she is my backup plan.

FWIW I see no reason for your assumption that SOMEONE surely died.Something I've never gotten about the whole "Aerys you ARE the father!" theory: why would Joanna not just abort them?  Why take the risk of dearest Tywin's kids having purple eyes and white  hair? 
You make some good arguments, but why on earth would Joanna ever want to fake her death and leave her children ? And why would she only show herself to Dany (15 years later), instead of Cersei, Jaime and Tyrion ? No matter who their father was, she was definitely the mother.

This also happened before the Defiance of Duskendale (277AC), before Aerys got really crazy, and even before he started killing wetnurses and mistresses (after the death of Jahaerys in 274AC). So why would she ditch her entire life and her own children to protect her friend from a danger that was still years away ?Not totally sure if I personally buy all of it, but *holy crap* dude, great work. This was a fascinating read.Very interesting. In reading that, especially the part about Jaime and Cesei being Targaryens, It came to mind.

Imagine the irony if Jaime and Cersei were Aerys' children, and Tyrion was actually Tywin's, and Tywin knew and that's why he was so mingy to Tyrion all the time, because in his eyes Tyrion was the best he could do while Aerys birthed beautiful children with his wife. 

People like to say "Tyrion is a Targaryen!", what if it's the opposite? Why didn't Tywin name his eldest son after himself (Tytos > Tywin > ???, Tyrion?) Maybe he did name is eldest son after himself, because Jaime isn't his eldest son at all?

This would also mean that aside from Kingslayer, Jaime is a Patricide, just like Tyrion.

What if the line "When a Targaryen is born, the Gods flip a coin" applies to Jaime and Cersei; one is becoming a decent human being, the other is becoming worse with every day.

You can really go down the rabbit hole on this one...Given this vision that jaimie has, is anyone else surprised this theory hasn't appeared until july 18th 2017??The Quaithe=Joanna is fun tinfoil to read though i don't believe it. However i still hate the theory of Aerys and Joanna having affairs that produce offspring. The only one i can get behind is Aerys raping Joanna which produces Tyrion which i still hate because it takes away from the Tywin-Tyrion relationship and cheapens R+L=J by having another secret targ. 

There really is no reason to believe Joanna had any positive feelings for Aerys by the time she would have conceived Jaime and Cersei. Aerys was already a massive dick and likely humiliated her at her wedding. And while we don't know if she cared for Tywin the way he seems to have cared for her we can summarize she was a pretty smart and capable woman if Tywin would take her advice. A smart woman wouldn't keep up an affair like that, especially when it seems throughout history of Westeros the King's affairs are fairly well known.

And by the time Tyrion can be conceived it makes even less sense for it to be a love affair. Aerys is nothing like the young probably handsome and charming Prince he was during their stint before he was King and he has once again humiliated her and House Lannister as a whole.  Rape makes more sense but still seems fishy and would need a really good explanation of how Aerys got away with it/why Joanna did not mention anything. And then of course there is the whole not looking like a Targaryen thing which would seem cheap since it seems to be fairly rare for that family and we already have Jon who looks nothing like them. Again it just cheapens the already established secret targ plot twist. I could see a mom being horrified at finding her kids enjoying an incest-burger but that would be enough for her to just leave them, pretend to be dead? Doesn't say much for her motherly love for them or for her big headed newborn.> Either way, it's pretty obvious by her freak out about Jamie and Cercei's incest that she either suspects or knows that they are secret Targaryens. 

Wouldn't you freak out if you find out that your children is fucking each other?Is there a chance for it to be only for the show-Beric? Or will Jon die again to be a fire and ice wight? *(wait what?) *My only question is why would she fake her death?> Tywin's personality, in fact, is so extreme that it makes me question if Joanna would have ever actually loved him. He is not a very lovable person.

I'll admit I haven't read the entire theory yet, but I had to pause at this. We're told their marriage was happy, and Tywin was apparently not the same person after her death.

> His mother had died giving him birth, so the Martells would have found the Rock deep in mourning. His father especially. Lord Tywin seldom spoke of his wife, but **Tyrion had heard his uncles talk of the love between them.** In those days, his father had been Aerys's Hand, and many people said that Lord Tywin Lannister ruled the Seven Kingdoms, but Lady Joanna ruled Lord Tywin. **"He was not the same man after she died, Imp,"** his Uncle Gery told him once. **"The best part of him died with her."**

> [ASOS Tyrion V]I don't see how the Jaime Cersei relationship is evidence that they are Targs when Tywin and Joana are closely related themselves. I know cousins=/=siblings but it's comparable. I also don't get Tywin falling for an imposter, this is his wife who he very much loved you're talking about.Anyway, how would Tywin mistake some dead servant for his own wife? Skipping the point that Tywin was likely with her during Tyrion's birth, wouldn't it be easy to tell apart a woman just after birth and one that wasn't even pregnant?Slightly related, but why would Quaithe tell Dany not to trust Tyrion?

"Soon comes the pale mare, and after her the others. Kraken and dark flame, lion and griffin, the sun's son and the mummer's dragon. Trust none of them. Remember the Undying. Beware the perfumed seneschal."

"Lion" is Tyrion most people surmised, unless it's not. Why would Joanna tell Dany not to trust Tyrion? Or am I completely off base here.This actually makes a lot of sense, and I kind of like it. The parallels between Quaithe and his mother's visions make sense, the incestuous nature of Jaime and Cersei makes sense, and even Tyrion's penchant for being a good ruler makes sense. This is one of few theories where I basically see no holes, little real tinfoil, and no absurd boundary-pushing (bastard children are common-place, even among nobility, and escaping Tyson to save her life makes a lot of sense). 

I'm choosing to believe this one pretty strongly, at least as more likely than not likely. Thank you for putting together the evidence and making it such a compelling read!The other thing I always wondered about is why did Dany get a tingly feeling after Quaithe touches her? I love the little details like reflected candlelight and free space in the boat, but I feel like towards the end you drift too close to the fan fiction territory and it simply doesn't feel like something GRRM would do - othern than the last few paragraphs though, awesome theory and something I've never considered before!A little correction, Joanna's siter's name was Lynora, not Lenora, or at least so says AWoIaF.High quality tinfoil still coming off the rolls even after all these yearsI like how this gives a plausible explanation to the empty cabin, Dany's memories of Dorne, why Marwyn was in Essos, and the Targ/Lannister theories. It's really compelling. Do we know what happened to Mother Martell?Christ, this even matches up with the Lemon Tree theory about Dany being raised in Dorne instead of Braavos.  Fantastic stuff. I wonder... Do you think cold Tywin may have found out about Joanna and Aerys' flings and took the Sack of King's Landing as an opportunity to get revenge on the Mad King's heirs? It's a heinous crime, which Tywin denies, and the fandom pretty much accepts. He's a heinous man, though. if true, consider the irony of cersei's fury that tyrion killed their father when it was in fact jaime who killed their father.

and of course the wildfire fetish.

i like it.I'm sorry but from where do you get that Joanna and Aerys had a relationship for 3 years and even after Joanna's wedding? I haven't seen anything that suggest more than they having sex. It's imposible to know how long or meaningful was their relationship. OH COME ONThis is a lot more credible than I thought it would be at first instinct, good job! I do have a question though, how would Joanna and co be able to fake out Tywin with a different body? Surely he would be able to tell the difference between his wife and someone else, it's not like Joanna died and instantly she was thrown into the ground. There was likely a funeral and Tywin had to have seen her at some point after the death. Also, second question, when during the birth would the ol' switcheroo have taken place? I'm sorry this may sound stupid but I have to ask...where is it said that Tywin went to a whore house all the time? Kindof goes against everything he says to Turpin for 3 books.Tywin would have also acknowledged the fact that he is barren, and he does not appear as very spiritual. He would have known that his children were not his and kept them for the 'sake of the family name' in some way? I do like the idea of the twins being Targs,  if she acts like show-Cersei with the wildfire, or *worse*, she will definitely be her father's daughter. 
But Tyrion a Targ? Hmm not a fan of this despite his love for dragon + the theories that come with it. 
But then why? Does this add anything to the plot except the fact that lineage is fucked up is asoiaf?Tyrion being physically deformed is compelling evidence that he is Tywin's only biological son. Another thread with the same theory
https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/4zczqr/spoilers_published_quaithes_true_identity/Haven't read all of it yet but I'll point you to /u/Hollowaydivision who made this claim a few weeks back. Check out their posts. I think it's something about Dead Wives Club.  I've heard about this theory before and my problem with it is that this:

>Later, she visits Dany in visions that are exactly like the one Jaime experiences with his mother.

is simply not true. Quaithe had appeared to Dany while she was awake, those weren't even visions, Quaithe's "projections" or something literally appeared before Dany. While Jaime was actually asleep, no projection appeared in front of him, he saw himself back in KL standing vigil near his father's corpse and it is in this dream or vision that he saw Joanna. These are completely different scenarios, not comparable at all.Really good read even if I don't think it's very plausible or adds anything to the story.


Also I would find it weird, if Quaithe really was Joanna, that she seems to take much more of an interest in Dany than any of her 3 actual children, only appearing to Jaime once and never to Cersei or Tyrion, but appearing to Dany multiple times.Good read. Makes me want to re-read some of these chapters. Though yes, tinfoil, this was a fascinating read. A lot of stuff I didn't know as a show watcher (though I read a lot about what happens in the books and love fan theories). Okay I'll be honest, even though this is some serious tinfoil at face value, you do make some compelling points. The open cabin Oberyn mentioned is one of themI'm intrigued - what do you mean about summerhall?My best theory for motivation is saving Rhaella, as well as Joanna saving herself from Tywin, and from Aerys.Also plausible given our lack of information. I just really like the idea of a plot to get out of the Rock between Joanna and Mother MartellI don't understand- none of that is speculation on my part. It's all directly from the world of ice and fire and the booksIsn't it great that even the minor characters inspire a need to know where they are? That's good writing!It's worth considering - there must be some reason that Quaithe both knows so much about Dany and wants to guide her. If she was only for her kids she might not help Dany out. 

We shall see!Wow, thank you very much! That's high praiseWell, now that the book is done, I have a bit more time :)Understandable. Up to the last part, it's from the text, though there are places where I have read between the lines to get the meaning.I've never heard that theory about Sarella- that's a fantastic thoughtWell.... everyone is someone, so then, who is Quaithe? She is quite the mystery.I love it, thank youSorry I didn't mean to imply some sort of genetic engineering by using "prone". I just meant that they tend to commit incest as a normal part of lifeHonestly, I think he is.I just need to know how Joanna is using a glass candle to communicate with Jaime. If that can be explained another way, we don't need Quaithe in the theory.I may build with tinfoil, but I double wrap every joint to make it strong!Tough but fairHahahaha sorry. You can add "The Cruel" to my name if it helpsPlease reserve any judgement! I don't know if this is true, but as a potential plot/mystery, it really has a lot of internal logic to itMaybe? Like perhaps she goes to Asshai and is also a shadowbinder perhaps? I hope that she's still around, or at least that she is the mother of Mel as theorized. I just want some answersThat's a fantastic point. It's very unusual for a man like Tywin to not remarry, even if he has kids already.Thanks!Hahaha yeah it's crazy, but I think this one is very possible. If it helps, I do think Rhaella is dead.Thanks, love your theories. Who is your main candidate for Quaithe? Ashara?

As for the assumption that someone died, I agree that it doesn't have to happen, but it sure helps to alleviate suspicions that Tywin might havePerhaps it is like the question of Baratheon versus Lannister, where the Baratheon features override Lannister features?Well, he had already announced that he would only sleep with her in 275AC, and she had been kept in Maegor's Holdfast since 270AC, so she needed help (she being Rhaella).Thank you very much! I do really like this one, even if I, like you, don't buy all of it or don't know all the answers.I know, it makes the Cercei chapters so much betterI guess it goes to show just how much material we're dealing with here. A few others have put parts of this together, and that influenced it, but they never explained how she escaped from the Rockforgive me if I'm wrong, but aren't targ characteristics "recessive"?Well we don't actually know this characters. So it is possible. We don't really know Aerys before he went mad.Does that require an armed guard outside each door?It's a good question, and I'm not sure I knowI agree with the quote- it does seem that Tywin loved her. We don't really know what Joanna thought, however.

But Tywin was always brutal. During the ninepenny kings war, he was already brutal, and he killed the Reynes while just married to Joanna. So the brutality is not newThe idea that Jaime and Cersei are Targs is ridiculous. Targaryens have purple eyes for one thing. Also I don't think incest it's a genetic trait. It's more of a tradition.It's more than just the incest. Cercei grows mad with power and (in the show) burns countless numbers with wildfire. Jamie is the greatest fighter in the land but unconcerned with wealth or power, only love. Remind you of any Targarians?She is Joanna's half sister, not just a serving girl. She is also the same age/close in age. >  the mummer's dragon

Fabulous. It took this thread to hammer home that the phrase "the mummer's dragon" is used both during Dany's vision in tHotU and, later by Quaith  in ASoIaF.


If Tyrion is also a Targ, then he's not a lion to mistrust?Great question, that I don't know the answer to>Escaping Tyson

Hilarious typo, upvoted.Thank you!!I agree, but the problem is the lack of specifics that we have available. I have to interpret what little we know and extrapolate from that. It's just a theory, but it's pretty well influenced by any evidence I could find.You're right, thanks! I'll change itThis really is massive Tinfoil.This is my first visit in years. Good to see r/asoiaf is as sharp as ever. I wouldn't have it any other wayNot as far as I can tell. She really is a mysteryI thought she was raised in Pentos. I know, and I both love and hate that also. I never wanted to be a Lemongater :)I don't know, but it sure makes sense if it did happen that way.My favourite irony here is that this means Joffrey and Tommen are continuations of the Targaryen dynasty. Not the Lannisters and certainly not the Baratheons.That would be some delicious irony - also, this whole theory doesn't have to be true for Jaime and Cersei to be Aerys' children...> I'm sorry but from where do you get that Joanna and Aerys had a relationship for 3 years and even after Joanna's wedding?

Thank you, this is what I was wondering too. I know the books are vast and full of details but I don't remember this at all. Can OP provide a source (book and chapter) in which this info was given? Was it in that World of Ice and Fire book that I didn't read? I was wondering the same thing. It's not even known for sure that they actually had sex. We know that Aerys had a thing for her and that there are rumors that he acted inappropriately during the bedding ceremony on her wedding night. And that they were in King's Landing at the same time. That's pretty much it. She gave her virginity to Aerys in 259AC, and she was still sleeping with him after he became king in 262AC, so that's the three years. And obviously something happened after Joanna got married, as Rhaella dismissed her from her service in 263ACHahahahahaMaybe Tywin realized Tyrion (and, by extension, Jaime and Cersei) were Aerys's children and, rather than be publicly cuckolded and bring shame to the Lannister name, he decided/forced Joanna to flee (and possibly join the Silent Sisters). He was then able to spin the story of Tyrion being born a monster and killing his beloved Joanna in childbirth, which was common enough that it wasn't a huge stretch. And who in the Westerlands would openly defy Tywin Lannister after what happened to the Reynes?Great questions, and I don't know the answers. It bugs me too (the body). But having Lenora Hill available to switch with is my best explanation.The Tower of the Hand or whatever building Tywin stayed in when he was Hand of the King has a secret tunnel in the back of it that goes to a brothel in Kings Landing.

Also when Tyrion goes to Kill Tywin he finds Tywin has been using Shae as his personal whore.Varys tells Tyrion that the secret passage to Chatayas was for a previous Hand. The speculation is that it was for Tywin. Not sure which chapter/book, but Varys reveals it eventually. It was subtle. It has to do with the tunnel that Tyrion uses to get to Shae. It was built for Tywin.Admitting you are sterile is admitting weakness.  He wouldn't have done that.  He needed heirs.  He could have been blind to the fact that he was sterile like he was about the incest.  For one, there is a motive behind Quaithe, and pretty much no one but George knows what it is. 

Like any of the Lannister are secret Targaryen theories, it just makes Tywin's efforts in vain. I think the utmost slap in the face to him would be that none are actually his, despite how much I dislike it making 3 characters secret Targaryens.see, i think it's pretty damn likely Tyrion is either half Targ or half Dayne. Tyrion is a chimera and has two differently colored eyes and two different colors of hair. the only other characters with this genetic trait (that we have seen recently) have been stony Dornish houses (certain Daynes) or Targayen houses. chimerism is incredibly rare, but it could be a genetically recessive abnormality that expresses itself with certain stony Dornish/Targ babies. perhaps i have been listening to too much PJ, but i do think it's worth mentioning.

wanna know what's weird? Tyrion being a chimera means that at one point, he had a twin too... he just absorbed it. I think he is Tywins son too, and Jaime and Cersie are the targs. He inherits Tywins intelligence/cunning, verbal wit,  and love of whores. It would make sense that Tywin would hate the fact that his one true offspring is deformed, while these other two outwardly perfect kids aren't his. 

Meanwhile, everytime a Targaryen is born, the gods flip a coin. So one of Jaime and Cersei was always screwed to go mad, and if the show holds true, Cersei did an awfully good Aerys impression with that wildfire....There's evidence to both sides, but why would him being a dwarf be evidence he is a Lannister? Awesome. I saw a few that had made the connection, but none that brought in the Martells as co-conspirators so that's my lil extra :)Thanks, I saw that one and that's partially why it was in my head.Glass candle users can influence people's dreams. It probably doesn't matter if he was dreaming or not. 

Isn't one of Dany's visits when she was pretty much asleep and not sure if she was dreaming of not? Joanna tells him- this is no dream. In his dreams (which she also sees) he always has two hands.Because, Quaithe knew the prophecy. Perhaps she is watching over them without interfering too much? Or perhaps she knows of Cersei's prophecy and thinks it's best to let that play out on its own? You've got a good point, though. That might be the biggest weakness in the theory. I would find it weird too. If I'm guessing, and the theory is true, do you think she is embarrassed about leaving and that's why she's not talking to them? She obviously watches them, as her tear shows in the vision.which book is this from?

edit: Nevermind answered my own question,  
> In A Feast For Crows, Chapter 44, Jaime has a vision.You should really take the plunge and read the books. Having seen the show and knowing what happens does not take away from how incredible the source material is.Whats the exact quote here?Mind reminding me what open cabin you're talking about?Believe me, I completely agree. But when I saw that quote on a reread I knew it was important, and "queer" as Tyrion saysWhat about her living in Asshai all this time? And what's with her helping Dany, but not her own blood? If it is Joanna, then it just seems odd from a narrative perspective for her to be away from her children for a couple of decades. Not to mention to randomly train as a shadowbinder to guide Dany. She can just be Quaithe.  A woman from Qarth who we'll likely never see or read about in person on show or books again other than give warnings via glass candlesbut like... how would they just inherently know to do this?The text begins with "That night he dreamt that he was back in the Great Sept of Baelor." I don't know if the hands are enough to prove it wasn't a dream and that someone was actually communicating via glass candle.

Although I do note that in AFFC Sam 45, which takes place right after Jaime's dream, Sam describes the black candle as "queer..."

Edit: It now seems to me more likely that someone in the Citadel used a glass candle to infiltrate Jaime's dream.to me, Tywin not remarrying only makes sense if he had a compelling reason not to do so. that could be because it retroactively calls into question the paternity of his other kids. Ashara?Thanks!

I get what you're saying about switching a body or whatever, but it also means Joanna doesn't get her tongue cut out, which since writing about that I've become even more certain is important. It also eliminates a lot of very important tragic, emotional beats from the story.

BTW, the tongue thing is one of my big hang ups re: Joanna being Quaithe: that Quaithe *talks*. Of course, the mask could hide the fact that her mouth ain't moving and that she's pyschically projecting or some such thing, but... that's tricky. Still, as I said, she is my second candidate. Just a very, very distant second. If we got our hands on GRRM artist notes that specified that Quaithe's mask hides her mouth I'd start to get suspicious.
Keep it up!I would probably do that.Doesn't this also explain Tywins reasoning to sleep with Shae?
If Tywin loved Joanna that much, he would have hated knowing that she was sleeping with Aerys. Tyrion is a constant reminder that Joanna loved Aerys more than him, and he hated it. Hell, Tywin was the downfall of Aerys' reign, and his hatred over Joanna could have been a motivating factor.
Looking at the child of Aerys, who killed the love of his life would torture him.
So Tywin, being a sadistic fuck, decides to sleep with Shae in order to get back at Tyrion.well how do you know if Joanna didn't like that in Tywin? we simply don't know her characteristics.True, he was pretty ruthless when it came to people who opposed him - but there's no indication that he was like that "at home". In the same quote I posted earlier it says that "Joanna ruled Lord Tywin", so it seems like she had a decent grip over him, and wasn't intimidated by his brutality.I mean... not all of them. I agree with your conclusion, but your facts are wrong. Baelor Breakspear doesn't have purple eyes, neither does Jon Snow. As well as others. Still, she's a half sister, not a twin, the man that seems to love Joanna so damn much would probably notice the difference between them, even assuming Lynora was pregnant and Tywin was absent during Tyrion's birth.Reading other threads on this, it's possible that Tyrion is actually Tywin's son, and Jamie/Cersei aren't. I know people moan about there being "too many Targs" in the world.. but being Targeryan isn't too special, especially when you can't really do anything impactful with that knowledge.

Also, reading on Quaithe's warning, there's simply not enough information out there to draw any conclusions on who is who in the warning. Lion and Griffin imply Tyrion and Jon Connington... but they part ways suddenly when fAegon decides to go to Westeros, so it's possible it's not them at all.

And no one has any clue what/who the perfumed seneschal is.I'm usually good about catching those, but one slipped through. Damn autocorrect. That said, Tywin=Tyson is pretty great!No problem! I've sent it to a few friends, too. It's a great write-up.She was raised in Braavos in the house with the Red Door.

After the knight that was taking care of her died, she moved around a lot with her brother.  

The first book starts with her in Pentos.

However, due to the fact that Braavos has weather similar to London, it is not capable of having lemon trees.  Dany specifically remembers having a lemon tree by her window.  This led fans to believe she was raised in secret in Dorne, the only place capable of growing lemon trees.Joanna is still Lannister, but it was Tywin's dream the Lannister's would join the Targs. It's the irony that keeps on giving.From where did you get that information, that's what I'm asking. A thousand things could have happened, that doesn't mean they still had a relationship.  I really like the idea of him knowing but not ever making it known because he was "afraid of being laughed at" as "Joanna" mentioned in the vision to Jamie.  This makes it much easier for me to buy into one or all of them not being his. This is a great thought!I mean.... can we add a Red Priestress to the mix and call it a glamour? BOOM! Solved.Maybe they were able to convince him he couldn't see the body. It's grasping at straws but still. Or Lenora Hill in makeup.Motive behind quaithe, okay. Quaithe being Joanna, why? Maybe the undead thingy Dany but I'm not a fan of that. 
And Tyrion may be his only real son, stunted, laughed at,  but so much like him as well as more humane. This is already quite a blow.Heterochromia is more often caused by a mutation in melanin production, or as a part of a syndromic irregularity such as [Horner's Syndrome](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Horner%27s_syndrome) or [Piebaldism](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Piebaldism), than by chimerism. It's also delicious irony given cousin Genna's statement to Jaime in AFFC:

>"Jaime," she said, tugging on his ear, "sweetling, I have known you since you were a babe at Joanna's breast. You smile like Gerion and fight like Tyg, and there's some of Kevan in you, else you would not wear that cloak... but Tyrion is Tywin's son, not you. I said so once to your father's face, and he would not speak to me for half a year. 

I've often wondered if he wouldn't speak to her because she touched on a truth he didn't want to acknowledge, and if, in fact, Tyrion *is* Tywin's son, but *not Jaime.*What does Cersei and Jaime being Targs add to the storie? Unless you think Jaime is going to become AAR, but that seems a stretch.The big support for Tyrion is his thing for Dragons, though, and how the ones in the show didn't kill him like Quentyn.  However, the fact that Tyrion is so like Tywin could be a parallel to Jon Snow being so much like Ned, yet Rheagar being his actual father. If Tywin is barren or has bad sperm, Tyrion's physical deformity would be evidence of that. It's common for people who have trouble getting pregnant to produce sickly babies when they do. Older men and men with "bad" sperm tend to have children with defects.  Yes that's true>Glass candle users can influence people's dreams.

Do we actually know that?

>Isn't one of Dany's visits when she was pretty much asleep and not sure if she was dreaming of not?

Dany was awake at that time, she had just woken up and saw Quaithe near her, but later as she couldn't really understand how could it be possible she decided it was a dream.Yes, she told him that and yes, Jaime had only one hand in that scene. But it doesn't change the facts that he was sleeping, that he was seeing himself in a place he wasn't at that point of time and that he didn't realise that something was off (like he didn't freak out that he was in KL while he was supposed to be in Riverrun). All three points quite clearly point out to one clear thing - it was in fact a dream, no matter what Joanna was telling him or how many hands he had. Now, you can argue whether it was a natural dream, or if Joanna is actually alive and showed him a magic dream of her construction but one thing is for certain - it has nothing in common with how Dany saw Quaithe.She would be watching over Aerys only surviving child, if that helps.Maybe it's just that international calls with the glass candles are super expensive?Maybe she knows of a prophecy that surrounds Cersei. Maybe she did love Aerys and Jaime killed him. Maybe Aerys is their father. It's also worth pointing out that your evidence works as much for Rhaella being Quaithe as it does Joanna. If the two are friends then Rhaella would look after Jaime in addition to her own children, though with an obvious preference for Dany. I agree, I own them and have started, it's more that time to read is scarce, though I realize that if I prioritized it enough that wouldn't be a problem. Just the fact that they mentioned the cabin at all is reason enough to be at least somewhat suspicious. Seems like one of those casual details that GRRM throws out every now and again that, well, aren't so casual. Then again he is a very descriptive writer.But Quaithe is not from Qarth. She is just there when Dany visits. If anything, she is from Asshai or the Shadowlands.I guess Valyrians just find each other hot as hellIt's true. The setting makes it dreamlike. I'll go with Joanna's insistence that it is not a dream to wash away that confusion, but that line above does make it more difficult.No body found....I didn't consider her a candidate until I reread AFFC and saw that Jaime vision. Now I am convinced that she is alive. It's mostly by conservation of characters that I decided she is Quaithe, but it makes a lot of sense, especially given Joanna's relationship with Rhaella (which Ashara does not share).That was a subtext that I kinda picked up on as well. It wasn't just the sex with Shae that Tywin enjoyed.This is a great thought!Yup, it's a huge knowledge gap.I think it's implied to be the boat that Tyrion, Jorah, Moqorro, etc were travelling. The Selaesori Qhoran. When Tyrion asks for a translation for the name it's said to him that it's something like "smelling steward" The tyrion thing was supposed to make us question tywins parentage to the kids.
Jaime and cersei are the children of Aerys. Cersei is the new mad queen. Jaime being a kin slayer and kingslayer... And he may have to do it again to cersei.

However tyrion was probably infertile.. Why none of those whores had bastards by him in the brothels.
And Aerys was crazy/mad after duskendale.. Joanna would not have had another child with him.
Why does tyrion have black hair mixed with golden blond? Why one green eye and one black?
Who else was Joanna around? And who else was rumored to have a secret lover?
If you remember or find that answer, you will know tyrions true parentage.
Makes the journey he takes with griff and young griff down the Rhoyne a lot more interesting.
Amd why the turtle presents itself to him and why he didn't contract greyscale. He was/is immune.[deleted]perfumed senescal -- varys? Tywin Lannisther? I believe this was hinted at in the World of Ice and Fire. I would also like to know where all this info came from as well!Recently GRRM made a statement about Beric being a wight. It pretty much put to rest the theories about Dany being dead. Mainly that her heart still pumps blood. Yeah all this is irrelevant, including the comment above, because I think we can assume genetics in westeros have nothing to do with genetics in real life.Well, I'm not sure what the situation was, but I think Quentyn was in a whole nother situation. He was dealing with dragons that were locked up inside for a dman long time, which probably enraged them, and he came there with the intention to steal them and even whipped them a couple of times.Usually when referenced in the books, people say to Jon that he has "the look of a Stark" and not Ned specifically. I don't see a lot of reference to Jon being like Ned himself.Tywin was about 30 when Tyrion was born... that's hardly old.So does incest, though. >"What feeds a dragon's fire?" Marwyn seated himself upon a stool. "All Valyrian sorcery was rooted in blood or fire. The sorcerers of the Freehold could see across mountains, seas, and deserts with one of these glass candles. **They could enter a man's dreams and give him visions,** and speak to one another half a world apart, seated before their candles. Do you think that might be useful, Slayer?">Do we actually know that?

I suppose not, but I'm not well versed in that topic. Excepting, of course, the glow of the glass candle that reflects in Joanna's eyes in the vision. It's clearly not a dream.

Sorry about the repetition- mobile issues.love this hahahaThat wouldn't explain Jaime seeing Quaithe as his mother in the vision, though that doesn't explain the martel side of the story. You'll get to a certain point in the story where you wont be able to put them down. Once I got into them, I read during every meal and every night before bed. TV no longer existed. Yes! I think so too, and the way Tyrion is so shocked that they visited even after knowing that Joanna was dead, means we should be shocked tooThere you are then.  She's from even further away from Westeros!  

This is also supposed to be a woman who died in childbirth in front of Tywin? Come onVarys is indeed most people's guess, as he's one of the few characters referred to as "perfumed" in the story so far.It was hinted they had some sort of encounter and I think Aerys claimed he took her virginity, but it's a big leap to assume a 4 years relationship as fact from that.  I was curious myself. Here are the relevant quotes from *World* on page 115:

> In 263 AC, after a year as the King's Hand, Ser Tywin married his beautiful young cousin Joanna Lannister, who had come to King's Landing in 259 AC for the coronation of King Jahaerys II and remained thereafter as a lady-in-waiting to Princess  Rhaella.

Then in a separate block it states:

> The scurrilous rumor that Joanna Lannister gave up her maidenhead to Prince Aerys the night of his father's coronation and enjoyed a brief reign as his paramour after he ascended the Iron Throne can safely be discounted. As Pycelle insists in his letters, Tywin Lannister would scarce have taken his cousin to wife if that had been true, "for he was ever a proud man and not one accustomed to feasting upon another man's leavings."

Other "evidence":

> "I appear to have married the wrong woman," His Grace was reported to have said, when informed of the event [Joanna giving birthing to twins]. Nonetheless, he sent each child its weight in gold as a nameday gift and commanded Tywin to bring them to court when the were old enough to travel. "And bring their mother, too, for it has been too long since I gazed upon that fair face," he insisted.

Look, obviously, neither Yandel nor Pycelle are neutral record-keepers writing for a disinterested audience, but what Pycelle says about Tywin still strikes me as true. It seems like it's correspondence between the two Maesters, and in response to rumors that would likely be damaging to the Lannisters. They *could* be true, or they *could* be made up. OP waves it away by saying this:

> his [Pycelle's] evidence is only that Tywin Lannister would never have married Joanna knowning that she had loved Aerys.

But that's *not* what Pycelle is saying. Pycelle is saying that Tywin would've been too proud to marry someone had they already been with another. Since OP theorizes that the hypothetical affair between Joanna and Aerys continued *after* her wedding to Tywin, it means you have to believe that Tywin would subsume his pride to marry someone who was a known mistress of the king.

Another problem with this version. OP says:

> she [Rhaella] turned a blind eye to his [Aerys'] infidelities. This included Joanna, who "dated" Aerys for over three years before her marriage.

That's in direct contradiction of *World*:

> the queen did not approve of his "turning my ladies into his whores." (Joanna was not the first lady to be dismissed abruptly from Her Grace's service, nor was she the last).

*World* puts the sequence of events as Aerys' lewd behavior at Tywin and Joanna's wedding (note: it doesn't say he behaved like a "crazed jealous man"), and then Joanna's dismissal from Rhaella's service shortly after.

*World* also says that Aerys didn't last long with anyone he took as a mistress. So OP has a theory that has two to three characters acting uncharacteristically: Aerys having a long-lasting affair, Rhaella ignoring that Aerys was fooling around with one of her ladies-in-waiting, and Tywin overlooking something that would likely shame him and his family.

And that's before you get to the biggest hole in this theory: how does someone fake her own death in childbirth? How, especially, would Tywin Lannister's wife manage to do so from within Casterly Rock?TWOIAF goes into it. it's not exactly secret.Tyrion freed them after s long time too. He tries to be as honorable as Ned is known for. He also abides by the man who utters the sentence should swing the sword. He's quiet. I didn't say he was. Young men can have sterility issues too. Exactly and Tywin and Joanna were first cousins, so that's 2 strikes against them having kids. Old defunct sperm, and incest. Only if you're already genetically inclined to have those defects. Incest just brings recessive traits forward. >"What feeds a dragon's fire?" Marwyn seated himself upon a stool. "All Valyrian sorcery was rooted in blood or fire. The sorcerers of the Freehold could see across mountains, seas, and deserts with one of these glass candles. **They could enter a man's dreams and give him visions**, and speak to one another half a world apart, seated before their candles. Do you think that might be useful, Slayer?"Someone posted the quote above 'But it was not Cersei. She was all in grey, a silent sister. A hood and veil concealed her features, but he could see the candles burning in the green pools of her eyes.' I don't see anything there that points to the use of a glass candle. He said he was standing vigil over his fathers body when this woman came up to him, there would be candles lit for the vigil, it makes sense that the candles would reflect in her eyes.

That seems to be a much simpler explanation, simply some flowery writing from GRRM, I don't think there's anything there to hint to a glass candle being used. An interesting idea though.So, if it's not a dream, did Jaime go from Riverrun back in space and time to KL to the point when he was standing vigil near his father's body? Or what is your explanation?

Look the candles could very well mean the glass candles but it doesn't change the fact that it was a dream. If they are the glass candles, then Joanna either created this dream or walked into the dream, but it is still a dream nonetheless. And that's not how Quaithe communicated with Dany.Does the text actually say its his mother? I thought it never explicitly says just that he recognizes her and its widely assumed to be his mother....What point do you think that is? I haven't gotten very far of course, about a quarter of the way through book 1, but I haven't reached that yet. I do get that phenomenon and it happened with many stories, often leading to sleep becoming less of a priority than finishing just one more chapter, but I fear that watching the show has taken away some of that need to know what happens next, even though I realize they aren't perfect adaptations. Marwyn the Mage was in Asshai, and now he is Oldtown. It is possible.Not really. It directly states in TWOIAF that Aerys and Joanna were still hooking up after he became king in 262AC, so that's three years of some sort of relationship. 

Joanna then marries the next year, in 263AC. After that, she is dismissed from Rhaella's service because Aerys slept with her again (turned her lady into a whore). So it's not that hard to make the 4 year relationship into a fact. We do know that they have sex over a 4 year period. 

What we don't know is what the relationship was like, or what Joanna thought about it.> The scurrilous rumor that Joanna Lannister gave up her maidenhead to Prince Aerys the night of his father's coronation and enjoyed a brief reign as his paramour after he ascended the Iron Throne can safely be discounted

I don't believe OP's theoryl, and have honestly never believed anything between Joanne and Aerys, but the fact that this is in there makes me think this part is true. There's the idea that an honest man will never tell you he's honest, because he has no reason to convince you, but a man that insists on telling you how honest he is does so because he is not, or a man that denies a crime that he was never accused of appears more guilty than otherwise. 

I have to question why the denial of the rumour would be included at all in a work of fiction unless you want the reader to believe it is actually true, and having it come from a source we already know is biased just makes that more likely.

That still doesn't prove a 3 year long relationship thoughBut Rhaella dismisses Joanna from her service, and says the thing about the ladies and whores in 263AC, which is 4 years after Joanna and Aerys started hooking up (remember, she gave her virginity to him in 259AC. I do not believe Pycelle on this one). 

So Rhaella was fine with the 'affair' for years. It wasn't until Tywin and Joanna were married that Rhaella dismisses her and says that quote. 

She obviously didn't  care about Joanna and Aerys until Joanna married Tywin.Thank you for the quotes! I love OPs theory but I agree that faking death in childbirth is tough to get behind; I suppose that if Tywin was away at the time it may be feasible... does TWoIaF mention whether Tywin was present for Tyrion's birth?I didn't say it was, I was just curious where this info came fromYeah, but it's kinda pointless to compare the thought processes behind what happens in the books, which we assume is well-thought out and consistent in world-building, and what happens in the show, which, wellHe's quiet because Cat basically formed him to be. He grew up on the sidelines and was made to feel extremely unwelcome. Those are good enough reasons to just stay that way - you grow up like that and some habits don't die.  As for being honorable, That also can have more to do with how he was raised than his actual lineage. The Stark FAMILY as aw whole is widely hailed to be honorable so it makes sense for him to be raised in that regard; bastard or not. And didn't Robb abide by that rule too when he killed the Karstark? We only keep hearing it from Jon because he's alive and Robb is long dead.But 1 if those strikes could count for Targaryens too, plus Targaryens have a history of having deformed babies. At least allegedly. 

I think neither side really has more proof than the other that Tyrion is Tywin or Aerys', though.  'The candles burning in the green pools of her eyes' is where GRRM is telling you that the candle is right in front of here, reflecting. 

While it doesn't say a 'glass' candle, Jaime wouldn't know that is and wouldn't call it that. But it is a glass candle, because only glass candles can allow for visions to be sent across the world, and for the user to see the past and future.

GRRM isn't going to spell it out - instead he'll use his flowery writing to hint at it. He is a mystery writer as well as a fantasty writer, don't forget.
Its a non dream dream . A real dream . I'm wondering if the argument is that while Jaime fell asleep, it's not a dream. Kind of like when [Spoilers Batman V Superman](/s "Flash send Bruce a vision of the future and then appears to Bruce while he is asleep"). The idea is that it's Jaime's awake conscious self, not him dreaming. Like his consciousness is transported in a vision due to the magic used by Joanna.
It all but does, but curiously it does stop short.It doesn't explictly say but there are a lot of clues.  Here's the text:

> That night he dreamt that he was back in the Great Sept of Baelor, still standing vigil over his father’s corpse. The sept was still and dark, until a woman emerged from the shadows and walked slowly to the bier. “Sister?” he said.

> But it was not Cersei.  She was all in grey, a silent sister.  A hood and veil concealed her features, but he could see the candles burning in the green pools of her eyes. “Sister,” he said, “what would you have of me?” His last word echoed up and down the sept, mememememememememememe.

> “I am not your sister, Jaime.” She raised a pale soft hand and pushed her hood back. “Have you forgotten me?”

> Can I forget someone I never knew? The words caught in his throat. He did know her, but it had been so long.

> “Will you forget your own lord father too? I wonder if you ever knew him, truly.” Her eyes were green, her hair spun gold. He could not tell how old she was. Fifteen, he thought, or fifty. She climbed the steps to stand above the bier. “He could never abide being laughed at. That was the thing he hated most.”

> “Who are you?” He had to hear her say it.

> “The question is, who are you?”

> “This is a dream.”

> “Is it?” She smiled sadly. “Count your hands, child.”

> One. One hand, clasped tight around the sword hilt. Only one. “In my dreams I always have two hands.” He raised his right arm and stared uncomprehending at the ugliness of his stump.

> “We all dream of things we cannot have. Tywin dreamed that his son would be a great knight, that his daughter would be a queen. He dreamed they would be so strong and brave and beautiful that no one would ever laugh at them.”

> “I am a knight,” he told her, “and Cersei is a queen.”

> A tear rolled down her cheek. The woman raised her hood again and turned her back on him. Jaime called after her, but already she was moving away, her skirt whispering lullabies as it brushed across the floor. Don’t leave me, he wanted to call, but of course she’d left them long ago.AGOT starts very slow and it can be tough to stick with it.I read the books after season 2, but early in the second book I was already riveted (though it wasn't yet new material for me). I really liked the amount of extra world-building that the books add. When the Starks and Lannisters clash on the battlefield becomes incredibly tense in the book as it switches back and forth on perspectives. I think as that war builds the book becomes difficult to put down. Your logic works in a funny way. Nice tinfoil though.She's quoted as saying that, but it's not given a date *when* she says that - I don't know how you get an exact year. And the text in parentheses ("Joanna was not the first lady to be dismissed abruptly from Her Grace's service") clearly implies it had been an ongoing practice for Rhaella. Much of the text in this section leaps back and forth in dates, and it's not telling a necessarily precise linear narrative.

There's nothing to imply Rhaella being aware of, or okay with, any potential affair with Joanna. For all we know, Rhaella dismissed Joanna for being a potential object of Aerys' lust. Given how he later humiliated her when she returned, it's not clear he loved her at all like you suggest.It could be inferred from statements on 116:

> (some reports also suggested he [Tyrion] had a tail, which was lopped off at his lord father's command).

And on 117:

> It was not long before reports of the king's remarks reached Lord Tywin as he grieved at Casterly Rock.sorry, i meant to reply to the comment above you.>As for being honorable, That also can have more to do with how he was raised than his actual lineage.

That's the point, though. Tyrion would be that way because Tywin "raised" him that way, not because of his Targaryen lineage. Being slutty isn't genetic. 

 Jon also has Ned's sass. Aerys is the product of generations of inbreeding, and while yes Joanna and Tywin were first cousins, Aerys' genes are much more likely to produce a deformed child. The Targaryen family's struggle with infertility, miscarriages and malformed stillborns throughout their time as the ruling family is well covered in A World of Ice & Fire. Tyrion's appearance also more closely matches that of the Targaryen family, as the silver/white blonde hair seems to be a defining trait of the blood of old Valyria. I would find it more believable that Aerys raped Joanna, out of desire for her and to spite Tywin. That and the fact that Tyrion's delivery kills Joanna is the reason Tywin has so much disdain for him. Sure Jaime wouldn't know what a glass candle was, but glass candles neither look like normal candles nor produce light like normal candles, so if there was anything odd about it he likely would have mentioned that.

You are arguing that it must be a glass candle because only then can be used for visions and seeing the past/future, and that it must be a vision because a glass candle is being used. That's circular logic and doesn't make any sense.

It's just as likely just a dream, as Jaime has had several odd dreams before, and much more likely just the candles in the sept being reflected in her eyes. There is nothing in the text that hints at a glass candle being present/used.[Spoilers Batman V Superman](/s "I didn't interpret that scene this way. I thought it was an attempt to show that Bruce wasn't sleeping when he saw Flash, but he thought he was.")

>The idea is that it's Jaime's awake conscious self, not him dreaming. Like his consciousness is transported in a vision due to the magic used by Joanna.

Well, the point I was arguing against was that Jaime's and Dany's visions were the same. And even if we take your explanation, my point would still stand - they are not.Wow, the OP certainly left out some compelling evidence.By stating that he could not have those things even though on the face of it he did, she could be implying that he didn't have children that *could* become a knight or a queen ... that Jaime and Cersei weren't his.  I can get behind this tinfoil.

And why help Dany?  She would be ... a half-sister to the twins?  Born to a friend and her lover?  Why wouldn't she try to guide her, if--assuming the full theory is true--she already took the step of trying to protect them at the house with the red door in Dorne.OK yeah that's definitely Jaime's mother. It might as well just state it explicitly.So I don't believe this theory at all but if we're being fair that is definitely the type of ambiguity that GRRM favors in that it could be interpreted as his mother but could be interpreted as his mother's good friend from his childhood I have had an interesting ride with the books. Started them after Season 2, finished A Game Of Thrones, then I struggled for years to get around to A Storm of Swords until last summer. Then in the long build up to Season 7, I finally started really consistently reading, finishing ACOK and AFFK. Just at the early portions of ADWD but I love the books, and I can see why people are often disappointed with the recent seasons of the show. Thanks for that. I will definitely try again and pick up my kindle to get to that point. :)And you're right, the quote isn't dated, but it also isn't directly about Joanna as well. We do know the year that Joanna was dismissed- 263AC.Because they don't marry until 263AC (Tywin and Joanna), and she is not a lady until marriage, and she had been sleeping with Aerys for over three years at this point. Rhaella and Joanna had been close friends since 259AC, and Rhaella did not love Aerys. So it was the change in status for Joanna that precipitated the dismissal, not Rhaella finally finding out about it. She would have to be really really stupid to not know until then, when everyone else knew that Joanna and Aerys had been sleeping together for years.I don't see Tywin being as much of a hands-on father as Ned was, especially as Tywin hated Tyrion.I am totally with you about Aerys raping Joanna. As it has been mentioned before, I do not ascribe to the idea that Joanna and Aerys were carrying on some kind of illicit affair. I believe that Aerys was obsessed with Joanna, and Rhaella was well aware of it. I do not think that Rhaella held that against Joanna, as Aerys' advances were not reciprocated. 

I think that after what happened the night of Twyin's and Joanna's wedding, it became clear that Aerys would never back down in his pursuit, therefore, Joanna was dismissed as one of Rhaella's ladies. She then went to Casterly Rock and rarely went to King's Landing. 

I believe that the marriage was a good one and that Tywin loved and respected Joanna. I also believe that Cersei and Jamie are their true children. As for Tyrion, I am of another mind. The circumstances would indicate that Tyrion is in fact, Aerys' child. Joanna went to King's Landing for the anniversary feast to commemorate Aerys' 10th year on the throne. It's clear that something went down, but I think it was a whole lot more than a comment Aerys made about Joanna's breasts. Tywin was livid and attempted to resign as Hand, but Aerys refused. It's quite telling that Tyrion was born the following year. His appearance in the books would also indicate that he is a Targaryen. It would also explain Tywin's hatred of Tyrion. As much as he hated Aerys for what he did to his beloved wife, he loved Joanna more. When she died giving birth, he kept Tyrion alive for the sole reason that he was Joanna's son. To me there is no other explanation for Tywin to allow Tyrion to live. He hated him because he existed and everything that entailed. Let's face it, Tywin never would have shied away at killing Tyrion. He could have made it look like whatever he wished it to be, but he didn't do it out of respect for his wife. 

Edit: than instead of that.It makes perfect sense. Only glass candles can show visions. We know it is a vision because Joanna tells us it is not a dream (or a normal dream). She explicitly states it, and I like to think she doesn't need to lie to Jaime about it, so I take it to be true. 

So if it is a vision, as we are told by Joanna and Jaime, and only glass candles can give visions, then the candle reflecting in her eyes is a glass candle. 

OP could have just quoted this with a timeline and he'd be set.I'm not quite ready to put on this particular tinfoil cap, but I do think the ambiguity here is more meant to convey Jaime's emotions than it is to suggest someone else.  The "skirt whispering lullabies" seals for me that it's Joanna and Jaime is too emotional about her to give her name or a motherly title. But still, he's not genetically predisposed to be a slut because Tywin was. He became that way because of Tywin's rearing, or lack thereof. > So if it is a vision, as we are told by Joanna and Jaime, and only glass candles can give visions, then the candle reflecting in her eyes is a glass candle

Not true, Bran has visions, Melisandrea has visions, there's the woods witch that Cersei sees and also the person Arya and the Brotherhood meet which may be a child of the forest. Lots of people have visions lots of different ways, we don't have a manual on exactly how magic works in this world and that's still assuming it is.

We also don't know it is a vision, there is certainly some hints towards it not being a normal dream, but for all we know this is just a dream person telling Jaime he isn't dreaming. Assuming it is a vision that still doesn't prove there's a glass candle being used, we have no example of glass candles being used to give people visions or insert themselves into others dreams.
Good points! However, we haven't seen any of the other people using fire visions or weirwood visions project themselves across space to another person, like we have with the glass candles. I still hold that it is a vision, sent by a glass candle, being used by Joanna.Davos is not exactly known for his geological knowledge, I think.Davos doesnt any role anymore. The audience forgot about him. From now on in this show, chracter actions and memories come from plot necessity and drama necessity, and have to be validated by the audience's memory of the character, and the audience's care for the character. Thats the difference between a script derived from a novel, and a script written by Tv shows screenwriters. Knowing there is dragonglass on an island is different than knowing the exact locating of a massive deposit. Plus Stannis spent most of his time in kings landing before Jon Arryn died, he probably didn't know about the deposit. 

Dragonstone is also located in blackwater bay right next to kings landing, unless you have a fleet, which the north doesn't have, trying to set up a mining operation right next to the Lannesters home turf inst going to be easy.> If the writers cared about continuity. Sam has discovered nothing in the "secret books" and that scene was a waste.

Right now, D&D and everyone else are packing their bags in preparation to end the show. I doubt that the writers care anymore. Game of Thrones is transforming from a political drama to a summer movie blockbuster. Continuity means moot right now, especially if the writers believe that their target audience will not care for it. Everyone wants to see Danny in Westeros. They got that. Everyone wants to see Jon be Westeros' savior. They got that. Everyone wants to see Arya kill in revenge. They got that. Also, the time jumping in the latest episode was insane. Months could have went by between each scene. The point of the show is to be as epic as possible to hide the writing flaws and dropped plots. Stannis told Jon that he would send for dragon glass.  Unfortunately he didn't live long enough to follow through.Sam didn't waste our time, he gave information and we saw Jorah.  Does no one have a problem with Dragonstone being completely abandoned? Not a single soldier or peasant or maester or rat. Stannis wouldn't leave some people behind to run the castle? No one else came to claim it? I have a huge problem with that. Is Storm's End abandoned too? I feel like lesser houses would either try to take these sweet castles for themselves or the King(now Queen) would give them out as rewards. This was a huge plothole. It would have been so easy to have the unsullied kill a dozen or so people, or to have them pledge fealty to Dany as her first Westerosi subjects.By "the writers" do you mean "GRRM?"I would say it's not as simple as you're making it out to be. 

Dragon Glass is as useless as clay in the mind of Davos and even Stannis until they reach the wall. Davos doesn't necessarily know Dragonstone has an abundance of obsidian. How or why does Stannis tell Davos about he Obsidian deposits there?

You're writing it into Davos' background. 

Even if it was mentioned in passing in front of Davos 1. Davos still ha no reason to believe there is anything spectacular about the Obsidian on Dragonstone compared to anywhere else. 2. They might as well be on the other side of the world from Dragonstone and aren't in the best situation to spare the ships or men to go to Dragonstone to mine it. Besides Davos may know Stannis abandoned it wholesale but they wouldn't know it's remained abandoned. For all they know the Lannisters or anyone else have since occupied the castle and taken it away. It's sort of odd to see multiple discussions of people saying "But why didn't someone just tell him what they know?" when a huge, driving force of the plot of the books and show is that people, due to personality and circumstance, almost never just tell people what they know.They also have dragon glass at skagos and skagos is in the north They can probably find dragon glass in skagos it will be quicker instead of sailing all the way to the crownlandsThere are so many plot holes in the show, I don't care anymore.  I just want to know how the story ends at this point.
But without Sam's appearance we would not have seen the lifecycle of a bowl of brown into a bowel of brown.Jon after reading Sam's letter: "So Sir Davos, Remember how i was asking everyone about Dragon Glass?"

Davos: "Yes M'lord"

J: "And you lived at Dragonstone for a good amount of time right? 

D: "Yes M'lord"

J: "So did you just not know there was a literal mountain of Dragon Glass there or did you not tell me on purpose? Cuz we could have been there by now if you spoke up" 

D: "To be honest your Grace i completely forgot, I really dropped the ball here thats my bad"
I think Sam's scene and the scene with the Hound are connected. The hound sees a vision of a mountain that looks like an arrowhead. Sam's book has three pictures.

- arrowheads
- LF's dagger
- the location of the mine

I think the Hound's vision was more ominous than most were lead to believe. The hound didn't just see the NK's army passing the wall, but it really shows them reaching Dragonstone and sabotaging the mine. 

I think the Davos thing is a bigger error than Sam, Stannis only made an offhand under the breath comment to Sam about it. But hey, maybe Davos will mention his knowledge of it to Jon when the letter comes, or he mentioned it offscreen and it will be mentioned later. [Because of this!](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/52fc05c9e4b08fc45bd99090/t/596cd5239f74563f1f11e744/1500304684675/)Do you understand the concept of corroborating sources? 


Stannis is a king who burned his daughter alive, marched on Winterfell in the winter like an idiot, and took his instructions from a red priestess who also wanted to fuck. 



Stannis has a horrible reputation, so Sam did not give him much time. The maester's books are the ultimate source of truth in the books/show, so it makes sense that when he reads about that the proverbial light bulb went off.




This isn't that hard to understand. I am unsure on what is so complicated. To be fair about the raven thing, He is still a man of the Nights Watch.  The Maesters would understand the need to follow orders and fulfill the obligations of your oath.

"I must report to the Lord Commander on my progress in forging my chain."  should be sufficent reason.Honestly this was just the first thing and the first thing is allways thr most minor. He will surely find out more important things this season.I think the *real* reveal of that storyline this episode is that dragonglass cures greyscale.Rewatch the god damned scene with Stannis and Sam.

Stannis doesn't say "Oh Obsidian, yeah we have this huge mine full of the stuff there."

He literally just say "We have obsidian on Dragonstone."  To Sam while Sam is trying to explain what Obsidian is.

It's more of a "I know what fucking Obsidian is you dumb little shit, stop explaining it."

Hell they likely "have" obsidian everywhere.  In fact Jon later supports this belief when he asks all northern maesters to look through their records.

Sam literally found what he needed in the books.Did Stannis discover the dragonglass on Dragonstone? Or was it there for a long time before him?

It had no military use to Stannis, just an expensive material for ornamentation that he would've had very little use for. Maybe they might've sold a little bit of it, but otherwise it wasn't at all noteworthy. I doubt Stannis would bother bringing up the geological makeup of the island to Davos, since it wasn't really relevant.

Though on the other hand, Davos is a smuggler and Dragonstone has been in his backyard his whole life, so he had to have known what went on there, and that they regularly traded dragonglass.Not disagreeing with the discontinuity, but I don’t know if Davos was hand at the time of the search (in the show at least). It’s possible Stannis didn’t consider it important enough to tell Davos about. I'm pretty sure he is going to read more books and discover more things in the episode to come...
If I remember correctly Stannis wasn't aware of this specific "mountain of it underneath the ground" just that there was dragonglass there. Sam just found a map of the exact location of a massive amount.Sam says he heard there was a cache from Stannis but didn't believe there was that actually that much.

Kind of a stretch, but I'd say this is all just a good excuse for Jon to visit Dragonstone and meet some blonde haired chick with dragons...Then the dragons flew over the castle and everyone fled.if nobody else, the ironbirn should have taken dragonstone. seeet fortresss and a deepwater port, and control sea access for kings landing to invade or blockade? hell yrs!I don't know, Dragonstone seems like it'd be a pain. It's a large, gloomy stronghold. Nice port, sort of close to King's Landing but still gloomy and way too big. Even a minor house might have trouble filling it.

Dany taking the castle is technically one of the better options. Had Cersei thought to take it, she'd never let it go.You really think people want to see a cold island with even colder hairy bearded people , or a hot blond chick with even hotter dragons.Its not a plot hole, its like saying the westerlands has gold but then getting the actual location of a gold mine.Was just scrolling down through the comments and thinking the same thing. The worst thing you can do with the show is over-analyze it. Dial your brain back, enjoy the scenery, root for your favorite characters to not die horrible unexpected deaths, and hope that some big questions get answered. If you want nuance and details that are well thought out, you gotta wait (and wait) for another book.D: "Shall I cut off more fingers?"That's an interesting theory, but Dragonstone is pretty far south. I wouldn't expect them to get that far anytime soon.  oh my god, goldwhat...the....fuck.

"here, ingest this crushed glass."

"are you sure it will help my skin disease?"

"why not, it's a magic cure after all!"

"that may be true, but what about it shredding my intestines? i may not have greyscale but i'll die of internal bleeding."

"good point. here, ingest this crushed glass!"

"fuck."

Wait. What?  Did I miss something?  Where did you see that?Jon says Obsidian is worth more to them than gold. I don't know about you, but if someone tells me that they have gold on their Island and then abandon it then im gonna get that gold...i'm sorry, but no. it's okay to say, 'i liked this episode despite it's flaws.' but if you have to work backwards to justify your character's actions, that's the show having bad writing, not the show having bad viewership. 

that's what's *so bad* about Sam not knowing about dragonglass. because it also underscores that Davos, Melisandre, Selys and Stannis also did not impress upon Jon that Dragonstone was full of dragonglass. *there is zero chance that could happen.* it doesn't matter if Stannis had a quick conversation with Jon or if Melisandre did a burlesque revue on a pile of flaming bodies, Jon *should fucking know already about the dragonglass on Dragonstone.* the audience should be able to assume that because otherwise, we have to assume that a bunch of characters are really, really stupid.THANK YOU. I Have been seeing this all over the internet.  People recreate scenes in their head, and exaggerate just to try to prove their point.  Stannis never says how much there is,  he just mentions it in passing."We have obsidian on Dragonstone." still means that there is obsidian on Dragonstone, no matter how you look at it. And this simple fact should had been investigated by Sam and not brushed off as something unimportant.Wtf is the difference? Does he have to spell it out for him? If Sam is so smart he should have easily been able to understand the words "we have obsidian on dragonstone."

seriously what the hell are you talking about?stannis would not have gone around with the shovel himself, digging around. he would have ordered it done by lesser people. and one of those people would have been his HAND Davos. 

If anything, Davos would have been the one to tell Stannis about the dragonglass.

A smuggler is skilled at exploring caves and coves and nooks and crannies of a coastal area. Sounds like the right skillset to explore an island to find stuff, no?

Wouldnt a Hand have knowledge of the resources of a tiny feif like dragonstone?

You guys are really stretching credulity to say that Davos doesnt know about an invredibly rare and noteworthy rock formation located less than a mile on a tiny island where he lived for 15 years (on and off)Davos joined Stannis' service after Robert's Rebellion and the two moved to Dragonstone at the same time. Stannis knows about the obsidian because he had the island searched for Treasure that Mel had seen in her flames. Davos was Stannis' right-hand-man until he declared himself king at which time Davos became Hand. So the search took place after Mel arrived, after Stannis declared himself king.

Even if Davos wasn't "Hand" he was Stannis' right hand man and trusted advisor. If anyone was involved in a search for treasure, they would involve an ex-smuggler who was experienced in sneaking around caves and coves and hidden places.

I think it's absurd to think that Davos doesn't know about the Dragonglass. Utterly absurd. It's like saying Tyrion doesn't know about the mines under Casterly Rock. Or Maester Luwin doesn't know about the statues in the Crypts of Winterfell. He was there for 15 years!!Or just turn back a page in the same book he was reading and discover something about Littlefingers dagger.Seriously. Sam is sitting on the biggest trove of information in the entire ASOIAF universe. Are we seriously thinking that one episode is all they're going to reveal?

No...they needed additional justification for Jon to make common cause with Dany, and they needed that right off the bat. Sam will stay in Old Town for the duration of the season most likely, so he'll have plenty of time to make more meaningful reveals. But not in the bloody premiere!

To be clear, Sam is close to information about:

* the nature of dragons;

* the Valyrians' connection to dragons;

* the history and origin of Valyria;

* the origin of the White Walkers;

* the magical capabilities of the First Men;

* the nature of magic more generally;

* details about supernatural beings (e.g. humans with magic powers) capable of influencing events in Westeros;

* details about the "Grand Maester Conspiracy";

* the history of the Daynes and Hightowers, who inexplicable bear a greater resemblance to the Valyrians than the First Men;

Needless to say, there's plenty more information yet to come.I'm also expecting Sam to discover the cure to whatever Jorah has. Unless that information will come from Davos … I just remember Stannis having sent for healers for Shireen but maybe Davos had to travel to find them?He had better, because this episode of Sam's adventure was a waste (not the first time that's happened).

And where are Randall and Dickon while all this is going on? Sam stole a magic sword 3 episodes ago and TOLD THEM WHERE HE WAS GOING. It wouldn't be any trouble for Randall or Dickon or some household guards to pop by and pick up a magic sword from whatever alehouse or whorehouse Gilly is staying at. Like he could just stand outside the Cidatel in the evening and wait until Sam leaves to go back to Gilly (women are not allowed inside).Stannis knows exactly how much Dragonglass is there, Iirc he complained about how he was overrun with the stuff. "Nothing but dragonglass" iirc. So a lot. Enough to make more than enough arrowheads and daggers. That Davos knows about.nevertheless, the whole scene of him looking at the secret books, asking about the books, stealing the books, then reading the books, yielded nothing for Jon that Davos can't tell him.Well, they do have unicorns up there.The shOw was far more consistent than this before though. Season 6 was the first that lost the plot a little bitCome one you guys have read the books. The flame visions never align with current events. I think it's supposed to be vague, but it is a vision of the future. They made it too incredibly obvious in the episode that Jon intends on gathering a ton of Dglass and that Sam has just found the location of the mine. Knowing the show/books, something pretty shitty is going to happen to Jon's plan. 

Plus, Bran was marked, foreshadowing how the walkers magic may work past the wall. 

And further to counter the argument that Dragonstone is too far away, Sam mentions how the dead don't rest, so they move considerably faster than a normal army. Plus, the scene of the NK brining the storm  shows that their cold magic cold be powerful enough to freeze water below their feet. I think all of this would happen when Dany is preoccupied away from Dragonstone. 

You have to ask yourself...why WOULDN'T they target the location of their version of kryptonite?

Just my thoughts. It actually kinda makes sense with the potential science that's going on, right? I mean, greyscale basically turns people into wights.As Sam and Gilly thumb through the books, there's very legible writing on the pages. If you pause and try to read it, you can read brief passages that allude to dragonglass possibly being a cure for something and that ingesting dragonglass can be dangerous.Here's the scene: https://youtu.be/7uo7dwbteFE?t=43s

It's not really mentioned in passing. The whole point of the scene is that they both realize how important dragonglass is and Stannis encourages Sam to look into it more. 

Whether it's bad writing in this scene, or bad writing in S7E1, it does seem silly.That line is ambiguous though. He could be saying that the entire fucking island is made of the stuff or, that they have a single piece of it in some jewelry. The line is completely vague Davos didn't live on Dragonstone for 15 years. In fact neither did Stannis. 

Stannis spent his time in King's Landing and Davos probably in his own lands in the Stormlands. You are dealing with a lot of denialists ITT. Suffice to say, you are 100% correct and the show is now riddled with plot-holes. No point denying it at this point. It's fine to enjoy the show with your brain turned off, but I wish people would stop giving the bad writing and gaping plot holes the credence of even internal coherence at this point.> Stannis knows about the obsidian because he had the island searched for Treasure that Mel had seen in her flames.

You're getting that from the books, yes? We're talking about the show.Maybe, but he's never seen that dagger and has no idea it still exist. It would just be a random weapon from history.  Dont forget that he's going to cure cancer. Perhaps Sam could find marriage certificate or Rhaegar's will or something. > the Valyrians' connection to dragons;
> 

"There are no dragons in Valyria."The show wouldn't bother with any secret info except dragons and white walkers, I'd say. Everything else doesn't have much context or importance in the show. I'm like 90% sure that neither Stannis nor anyone of his household will be brought up ever again.There was a little easter egg and he actually passed right over that information when he was reading to GillyIIrc Gilly is in a nice house/apartment with good clothes, so is little Sam, Sam probably sold it to the first person he could at old town. The sword is probably half way to Lys by now, Randall cares more about getting back then he does skinning Sam alive.Uhhh, Sam's part was like the best part of the episode > this episode of Sam's adventure was a waste

Chamberpots and chamberpots full of it, in fact.Except, that isn't said in the show. Stannjs mentioned Dragonglass in passing, it's fair to assume he meant a few weapons or sculptures or whatever at Dragonstone and that neither him not Davos know about the massive mine full of the stuff. That could easily be information that was lost to the Citadel.

If you thought that the whole setup of Sam's time in the Citadel was wasted for that bit of information they could have been given to Davos and saved time, that would be fair enough IF we knew for sure that that was the only thing Sam is going to find. Which is unlikely. I'll be honest I don't remember show stuff too well so you may be right. I do know that Davos is not around in the books when Stannis announces he's sent word to start mining it because they realized it's important. So maybe that's what I'm thinking ofIn which episode does he say that?The scene is meant to demonstrate that the citadel has a lot of restricted information that Sam can't get access to. I don't think learning about the dragonglass is the only thing he will learn about.Except as has been pointed out elsewhere, we don't know (strictly from the SHOW) that Davos or even Stannis knew the extent of exactly how much dragonglass was there. Stannis just basically said "I know what obsidian is, we have that on dragonstone". Not that there's apparently a massive hidden mine of it somewhere. You have to remember that the people writing the show are utter morons at plot. That's why these sort of inconsistencies crop up all the time in the show now, but didn't before season 5 when they were still closely following the books.Did I miss the scene where he burned all the books after reading that Dragonstone part?Hopefully we'll get more secret stuff instead.Agreed, it's definitely thin material so far.

I always kind of imagined Sam would find some meaningful info at the Citadel that could help Jon, but there would be a race against time to get the knowledge to Jon while it was still useful. I hope the show is building up to this.> Knowing the show/books, something pretty shitty is going to happen to Jon's plan.

That was a good reply, but this bit was your best logic.Even more so when you remember that Shireen grew up at Dragonstone.. and something they tried cured her greyscale.. Thank you.

The only other thing I noticed in the book was THE dagger.  The one the catspaw tried to kill Bran with.  The one Littlefinger lied about. It was a matter of not having the time/forethought within the Stannis arch to set it up. And then having to find an excuse to get Jon there with Dany anyway. With all the shit that has been cut, this is tiny. I'm not sure I'd say it's bad writing, as much as lazily attempting to save resources.Correct.  But Stannis never implies there is a lot of it at Dragonstone. Its perfectly reasonable for Sam to just think that Stannis is confirming he knows what it is and that its important.  

In this episode Sam even confirms that he remembers Stannis saying that, but makes it clear in his reaction he didn't think Stannis meant there was a lot of it.

Its not bad writing, its good continuity and in line with Sam's character who is smart enough to remember that mention by Stannis.  Also, Sam was not sent on a dragonglass hunt, but one for more information about the White Walkers, The Wall, Children of the Forest, First Men, and the Long Night.  To assume he'd be solely focused on finding dragonglass is to oversimplify his mission and thought process.Remind me of the context. Sam was explaining what it was, but what was the reason? Was it after he was saying that it can kill white walkers?

If so, and then Stannis said "yeah we got that", then why in the would would Sam not follow up on that claim with maybe a comment like "oh no kidding...how much would you say because that sounds super fucking important to know..."

and then why would he not tell jon before going off to the the bottom of the continentThe history before the main plot in the books and in the show is the same.Stannis ruled Dragonstone long before the main story began.The show may make it more significant. First it appeared in this seasons promo pictures, being worn by Arya, then that illustration appeared in the first episode. It seems to be popping up a lot for some reason.I fully expect there to be something in there about Rhaegar's marriage to Lyanna.  I missed this; what was the Easter Egg?I enjoyed it. It was actually better the second time around. I'll keep you posted when I watch for a third time.He didn't in the show.

In the books he leaves a toekn force guarding Dragonstone.  Once in the North when he learns that he can kill walkers with it.  He sends a Raven to have his token force start mining the stuff.It's not really an inconsistency and the problem isn't really the writing, in this case, it's the viewers who know more than anyone in world and have been waiting for a payoff. If Sam discovers something important I think it would be cool if it isn't related to the Others. That's what we're all expecting him to find and it seems so predictable that it would be unsatisfying now. Yeah, that was weird. I know there are a very limited number of Valyrian steel blades, but seeing the dagger re-appear in the series made me wonder why Petyr--only the second generation of a tiny, landed House with shitty lands--would have anything made of Valyrian steel. And why would he gamble away something so valuable? And to the fucking King, no less? It seems so odd.That's definitely a fair reading of it. I just think that small instances of sloppiness really stand out when forethought is (was?) one of the greatest strengths of the series. I don't really get your logic. Even in this past episode Jon acknowledges that getting as much dragonglass as possible is the highest priority. 

Sam knowing that there's some dragonglass at Dragonstone should have caused him to get more information from Stannis. So iirc, stannis asks Sam how he killed an other. Sam says dragon glass dagger. Stannis says "dragon glass?" Sam says "oh the maesters call it obsidian and..." then stannis says "yes we have it on dragonstone" in a kind of like I know what you're talking about. Then stannis changes the subject before Sam can inquire how much they have on dragonstone. 

To me the "we have it" line wasn't like a Oh the entire island is made of the stuff, but more like I'm aware of what you're talking about. Like a, hey do you have KFC in your country? KFC? Yeah Kentucky fried chicken  its a chain of restaurants that... Yeah we got those in my country No it's not. They don't even have the same lineage of kings in the show as the books. Anyway, his point is that side details like having the island searched for treasure may not actually be true in the show.They just wanna easter egg on your face but not have it mean anything. I guess that's more of a red herring. Maybe it's more of a blue barracuda. Who knows. It's all nothing. It's the key to the whole puzzle. Daario is Benjen is a faceless man. Cersei fucked Moonboy. The world keeps turning.Can we stop thinking that's posible and if it happens that its good writing? Again, why put Ned through  all of that secrecy, the strained marriage and Jon's bastard stigma if any two-bit maester or acolyte can just find out about it...Bran can tell Jon himself. He just got there and he saw Lyanna gave the babby Jon to Ned. He has to tell him he's Rhaegar and Lyanna's babby.In the book it has something about dragonglass being safe to ingest and can act as a cure to something.Does Jon know about it in the books?Yeah I actually just rewatched the episode and the only thing he says about it in the show is "I know what it is, we have it in Dragonstone".

So it is atleast understandable why Sam didn't think that much of it imo.

Having it somewhere is vastly different than having a mine of it."JON! I've found out about this one simple trick to penis enhancement that maesters don't want you to know about!"well if we believe the book's theory that joffrey sent the catspaw, he got the dagger from his dad's armory. peter never had it in the first instance, he made up the whole story to blame tyrion.

he had it later because it took it from ned. it was a sweet knife. and it reminded him of his glorious victory.
I'm sorry, but what version of Sam would start hounding Stannis about dragonglass information?  Sam is timid, he's not cowardly, but he's timid, its central to his character. He'd rather spend years looking for information in a book than start interrogating probably the most intimidating person he's ever met.

Also dragonglass is known to pretty much all of the characters and its clear that while its not a common mineral its gotten around the kingdom (likely from the Targs which is conveyed in this episode).  

Finally Jon (as was stated in my previous post) sends Sam to get as much information as possible. Jon is trying to use his limited resources (he was Lord Commander at the time he send Sam away, not King of the North) to the best of his ability.  

Jon can't afford to send men of the Nights Watch to Dragonstone as he can't even man more than a couple of castles on the Wall.  Even if Jon had sent someone there and they confirmed that dragonglass was at Dragonstone he didn't have the manpower to mine it when he sent Sam away.

Really the only possible plot hole is Davos not telling Jon about the mine, but we have no idea if Davos even knows about it.  It's fairly conceivable he doesn't know about it.Stannis doesn't change the subject. He is interested in why it kills white walkers and encourages Sam to keep reading. 

Here's the scene: https://youtu.be/7uo7dwbteFE?t=43sJust seems like such a poor decision to just permanently drop what might be the most important issue they will ever have and not mention it to Jon or make a plan to actually get it the dragon glass. Like come one guys...someone just told you they have at least some of the only* weapon that can kill your greatest enemy, you don't just go "meh, whatever", "what were we talking about again?". Just stupid. At least Stannis in the books was like YEAAAAAH hold on let me get my boys mining this stuff!! Stupid.But Stannis said they have Dragonglass on Dragonstone in the show.Even if they have an small amount that should be an valuable information for anyone who knows that Dragonglass kills the Others.> Can we stop thinking that's posible [sic]

Nope.There is a theory on this sub (forgot the link sorry) that says that Ned placed Rhaegar's harp inside the statue of Lyanna Stark. This makes sense with the photos released of season 7 where Littlefinger and Jon are in the crypts and Jon suddenly attacks him. I have a feeling Littlefinger will try to break open her statue, and that's how Jon finds out. 

EDIT: link to theory - https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/1py3ee/spoilers_all_i_know_the_gamechanging_secret_in/Why would anyone believe Bran? How would he ever explain how he knew this information? I dreamed it once? I had a vision? That is laughable on the face of it. The reveal of Jon's parentage was for the fans only, and there is no reasonable way it can be made relevant to the plot without some *serious* leaps.


Bran also has **far** more important things to talk about than Jon being a different kind of bastard than he thought. So saying he "has" to tell him is pretty narrow sighted considering the gravity of the situation all of Westeros is facing shortly.


The whole idea of R+L=J as a way of Jon getting a claim on the Iron throne is even sillier. As far as has been confirmed, exactly one person even knows about it. Which, for reasons I listed above, is not exactly a believable source. In addition, even if Jon found out and did believe it himself, he would never want the Iron Throne. Even if he did, is he going to fight Daenerys Stormborn over it? She crossed an ocean with 100,000 dothraki screamers to take that throne, she isn't giving that up to some guy with a pout and a crippled brother who says he is Targaryen based off of a wicked dream.



The only way Jon gets the throne is if the truth is found out, people believe the claim, Jon wants to pursue it, Daenerys doesn't burn him to a crisp, and then she *marries* him. That only happens in the land of fanfic and shipping. Jon's parentage, at most, causes him to go through a personal crisis over being lied to by his assumed father Ned.Hey everyone, listen up.  My baby bro just told me that I'm really the ruler of all the seven kingdoms, not just the North.  So, any time you're ready, come on over and bend the knee, and I'll accept your sworn loyalty.  Form a queue, so it's organized and we don't have too many people bowing at the same time.

lol.  

Bran's not exactly an impartial witness, or someone who is even clearly sane.  A duly signed marriage document, with proper witnesses, begins to form a different kind of evidence though.how is babby formed I really don't remember.  It's possible.The Watch has almost to none Dragonsglass and they need every piece they can find ,so if someone even mentions the location of a possible place to find Dragonglass(Stannis was sure there was some of it on Dragonstone) you really should at least consider to send someone to check it out for you.Yeah exactly just saying yeah we have it on DS gives no idea of how much they have. Like if I was explaining what a McDonald's was and you said, yeah we have those in my country, I have no idea if there's just a couple or if every single building is a mickyD's Jaime separately remembers Robert fawning over a dagger after the tournament. I think Littlefinger was telling the truth in that he lost the dagger in a bet.I don't think Sam would have interrogated Stannis in the moment, but it would have been obvious for him to get more information. 

Plus, I think ignoring that dragonglass would probably be sourced or at least more prevalent at dragonstone is where most of the frustration comes from. There just seems to be a logical gap between understanding the significance of dragonglass and connecting the dots to gain access to it. So much so that by chance coming across the information in the book seems ridiculous. Yeah but I was meaning he didnt give Sam the opportunity to ask how much dragon glass. And perhaps they were planning on looking there amongst other places, but the discovery of evidence that there's a HUGE amount there is still a legit revelation. It would significantly change their strategy for finding it.Possibly Sam would go back and talk to Stannis, but there was a lot going on at that point in time and both of them left the wall shortly after that (Stannis to die at Winterfell, and Sam to Old Town).

I feel you on the second point. If Aemon was still at the Wall he would have made that connection immediately. Not sure about the no-name Maester we see this episode.  

To us it seems pretty obvious to look in a volcanic region for it, but how well known is that in the general populace of westeros?  I doubt its common knowledge.  That is actually one of the things I liked about the Sam scene.  He knows he should have figured it out before reading that (or at least that is how I read the scene).  Between what Stannis said and what Sam knows about dragonglass it should have been clear to him, and he missed it.I guess, but it kind of suggests that Sam is completely incompetent. you're not missing anything.

best guess? the janky face changes Arya does onscreen are meant to communicate that she didn't finish her training. but because they only *look* janky while being functionally and magically superior to any other face change we've seen, the reason for them being janky is completely lost. like, if Arya is such a good face changer she can change her height, sex and voice too, why does her magic look janky at all? if anything it should look better, not worse.

i think this is just another case of the show royally pooching something, so you might just be out of luck. i don't think we're ever gonna get a good answer.Learning to control your face to change its appearance is part of the advanced FM training (Jaquen), while also wearing the masks is the simpler, more amateur method (like Arya) and is fully consistent with the canon.This seems like one of those complaints where what is being complained about is true to the books.

Because similarly, while we see Jaqen do an automatic face change in ACOK, we also see Faceless Men make use of those skinned faces they store.  And while it's not explicit, I'd assume that the Faceless Man who was Jaqen who took Pate's identity probably did the "peel off the face" thing (in addition to otherwise disposing of the real Pate's body).

Come to think of it, I don't think we've gotten an explicit explanation for the glamour face changes we've seen in either book or show, but I assume it's basically the same thing as the glamours used by Melisandre.It's fully consistent with this scene from S5 though.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ljFljgf2USkLets however keep in mind that Jaqen is a fully trained faceless man, who might have worked with and trained for it for a shitton of years.

Arya on the other hand left very soon after starting her studies, so of course she will not be even nearly as skilled as Jaqen. No... there's always a mask in both show and books. The other techniques/magic support the mask I think glamouring and masks are related, too (books and show).

This is (for me) more of a production thing than a storytelling or book-comparison. Arya's magic seemed more capable in S6 ...*unless she did the unveiling to announce that a Stark was a FM*? I guess that's possible? I do LIKE that Arya isn't allied with the HoB&W and not beholden to their rules.

Didn't think of it, but I suppose it's possible that Arya wanting word out that there was a Stark who could steal identities would put everybody on edge, ...a battle tactic (especially fitting to concern Cersei, maybe).Oh, yeah I actually liked that scene (and it's still perfectly mysterious for me), and thanks for pointing that scene out. But note how the faces Arya pulls off seem to vaporize (like magic, which this is, and which *she is doing*, unless Jaqen/No One is working the magic *for* her, which I suppose it possible).

And the Hall of Faces itself doesn't have more than the faces, giving the viewer the impression that the face skin alone carries the former wearer's "whole being" (hair, bones, memories in the books). That wasn't "broken" in the 7x01 scene.

I know Arya didn't finish her training —though Jaqen/No One seemed satisfied with her end in 6x08. Maybe that IS good enough, or she is an unwitting pawn for the FM.

I guess I'd have preferred the gore in this one case if they were trying to demonstrate how Arya was an FM-drop-out and yet effective at getting the magic part of it done (becoming Walder). It still just seems like a latex mask to me.Right, both are used in both the show and the books, both the physical mask and the magic/mummer trick, granted there's more of a magical element to the masks in the books than in the show.Oh yeah, that makes sense.  I wasn't thinking of Arya's Season 6 transofrmation.

I guess if I was going to handwave it, it seems like using a skin lets you take on a person's memories/personality to some extent, so it makes sense when you are pretending to be someone.  Now I'm not really sure how Arya got that glamour that she used in last season, and maybe it would make more sense to think she stole a face from the HOBAW, but I'd suspect they did it that way so as not to necessarily implied she murdered someone to take their appearance.That's pretty much exactly how I see it also. I'm pretty sure Euron is playing Cersei and just using her to position himself for a run at Dany later on. 

Stroking Cersei's ego to get into a better political position has worked for people like Qyburn.the prophecy would still hold true when Danny comes and sacks Kings Landing. I totally agree with this and what I'm trying to say is that Cersi sees through Euron because of the words he used to stroke her ego and their relation to the prophecy.Yeah considering Euron's plans up until that point in the show and in the book is to marry Dany, who he calls the most beautiful woman in the world, I think his possible alliance with Cersei will be short lived Yeah. The whole interaction comes across to me as a stalemate. Euron is just shooting from the hip like a madman to see what targets he hits and Cersei is trying too hard not expose her neck and reveal that she has no real allies. Must have taken days to build a co~~ck~~g that powerful!My guess is that it doesn't shoot out so much as lift on hinges when they ram something and latch to the hull to keep the ship in place for boarding I really like the look of Silence in the show, it looks a lot better than I imagined itThis would actually explain several things.I saw that and immediately thought of Nathan Hamill's toys.Just for a bit of book reader fan service, I wish that ship was red.


Euron is so much better in the books it's not even funnyInteresting. I'm almost done A Clash of Kings and just read the Battle of Blackwater Bay a few days ago. There was so much chaos among the ships ramming and going aflame that I thought I read something similar to this. A ship being pulled into another by a hook or something. 

It's my first read through so there are details that aren't locked into my brain yet, but I can deffo see this happening."how fully?" "in every way, of course."

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bHcN4Gm8tzMIt's a boarding ramp. 

Edit: I threw together some proof. http://imgur.com/a/em5eJ
Credits to winteriscoming.com and inverse.com for the images. I feel like the last panel needs a little Euron stick figure standing on the prow and cheering. .)I was wondering what that thing was, I thought it might be a catapult counterweight but this actually makes more sense. It also fits the squid theme. Nice discovery!It's actually a flamethrower I'm guessing. Like the pirates of the carribean man having a big bucket like that right on the front.  will kill your streamlining.  its above the waterline on level seas but it'll slow them down like crazy.Goddammit his is badass as fuckGranted its been while since I was in school, but since I was a Military History major, the moment I saw that epic ram on a sailing ship I was a little confused. Rams were the bread and butter of ancient and, to a lesser extent, medieval naval warfare but only on oared vessels. Is there a precedent I'm missing, or is just there because it looks epic? Probably makes more sense if that's just the anchor?Wow accompanying art and all. Great catch!Lol probably a battering ram instead of a hook but that makes it much coolerAnd it's propelled by wildfire.Yeah I did actually wonder what the hell that thing was, pretty cool idea.What kind of force would it take to throw and carry the massive hook-mouth thing and the chain across that distance?Great spot!"Bow to the New Silence" I see what you did there OP.

Solid fucking execution on the MS Paint graphics too. I like the attention to detail."GET OVER HERE!" - Scorpion I wonder if it can shoot dragonsBeautiful. Take your upvote, you've earned it. It evokes kind of an 18th century steam engine feel from it with the bold yellow outline highlights, which I kind of like. But otherwise yeah, it looks more like what I imagine GRRM's dromonds are than a cruel and fast longship, wish it had the mute maiden on the front of the prow with glowing eyes of mother of pearl.Definitely.  Iron Born are raiders.  They take prizes.  They're known for being dominant on the water because they're the only bastards crazy enough to wear iron armor while at sea - everyone else is afraid of drowning.  Makes a lot of sense that they'd have ships built to let them press that advantage.That's even more practical and fun!Damn, I can't wait to see insane Euron.I digress. You're correct, unless the boarding is just another thing it can do, but it seems like that's the primary function. 

IMO, the chain would have been way more awesome... people loved the scythe. Also the cinematic feel of it would have been amazing to see it just grapple ships and instantly wreck them. Also a bottleneck like that for boarding is a terrible design. Side of the ship is superior in every way.> that

next to a muteHonestly, that would make more sense, assuming it was similar to the purported fireships of the Greek Byzantines. Don't think Euron had access to wildfire, so it's probably not that, but the historian in me would be pleasantly surprised if it was.

Even Euron is like Jack SparrowThis bothered me a lot in assassin's creed black flag. Wind powered ships can't reverse so putting a ram on one is a really bad idea.From what I understand....weren't the ancient rams on boats underwater? So their opponents take on water?

I bet this is a launchable plank. Just guessing that from the teeth and the above question. When I saw that sequence of ships I was like, Oh man that's so dope. Then I waited to see the oars that would power the rams. As they went by and I saw no indication of oars I then thought, and where did they get wood for that many ships that size.Huh... You're right, that's weird and dumb. You can't maneuver to ram other ships without oars. Well, FWIW the book version of Silence is a proper galley with oars.George RR Martin describes most of the ironborn vessels being oared, basically beefed up Viking ships called longships. The ship that also carries Catelyn to King's Landing in the first book also has oars, as she pays the oarsmen extra silver I think for the quick voyage. The show has never really done oared vessels of substantial caliber, but it stands to reason they'll still do ramming as that's more exciting for naval battles than the medieval equivalent of mostly using archers. The trailers do show boarding at some point. Correct me if I'm wrong, but Medieval naval battles were fairly rare IRL since it was mostly infantry on ships fighting clunkily until cannon came around.This is also possible, but that would kind of get in the way of ramming with the way the anchor would be designed because you want to put the full blade of the bow into the side of a ship, not reduce the ramming force by piercing another part of the hull above the waterline before coming into contact with the hull, reducing the momentum and damage.Most likely not a traditional one, since the bottom of the bow is the part that's used to ram, as it hits and lifts the ship into whatever the device is.Massive ass spring system. It probably shoots out a walkable plank, latching to a ships deck with the teeth. Well, force is equal to mass x acceleration, so...The Game Theorists did a pretty indepth analysis of the force required to soon Links hookshot in The Legend Of Zelda series [here]( https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=LplSnXQMf38), probably very similar to the force required for The SilenceTen good men.a balista. Shh, don't tell r/trebuchetmemesProbably similar to that of a large scorpio (those massive mounted crossbows that fire giant crossbow bolts). It'd need to be HUGE though in order to hurl a massive hunk of what I assume is steel or at least iron.You dare question the greatest captain of the 14 seas?Yeah, I was thinking the exact same thing! I really want to know how that's shot out.They hired the sling shot guy Joerg Sprave to rig up a launching mechanism, rubber power man rubber power.Maybe it's hooked up to a hydrofoil!What OP doesn't show is the kraken stored in the hull. It's in charge of spear chucking.Find out now, on Mythbusters! Maester Edition.Well it's a fantasy story so... magic I guess. Used compressed air maybe? /u/hamfast42 had the thought it might have to deal with the sails on the side that they're winches of a sort that they could real back and shoot something like a crossbow. 

In the trailers, they hid the bow of the ship so the second I saw it it stood out to me. There's the little dark alcove which makes it seem like there's more to it than "meets the eye."Magic.A lot. There is no way that was made in MS Paint🎶TOASTYYYY🎶FINISH HIMFATALITY! EURON WINS!... TOASTY! The Blackwateresque Chain that Was Promised

We also discuss it a bit on the upcoming, sometime this week, *Quill & Tankard IV* of [Maester Monthly](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8aD00HA3oHY&list=PLhfPCQNP_aKBvngxiDqLrCJsdBL3W_Pv4) the modcast podcast where we discuss the show and highlight posts from the r/asoiaf. We also have a pretty cool intro for the sub.How would you fit the dragon inside?It looks like its angled too low to fire at dragons but, I dunno, maybe if everyone rushed to the stern the ship would be able to fire higher? I assume this is what it does but I could be wrong.I have seen the show but I don't get it. Reference to another show or something?I like the design, just wish there was some kind of resemblance to something from the books regarding this character.  We all know he's absolutely crazy, has a weird red eye, a ship full of mutes, red deck, his own brother on the prow etc..

The show he's just another Ramsay.  I like the improvement on him from last season, but in the books it's clear he's the final phase's big villain, or at least one of.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corvus_(boarding_device)Fucking right, where the fuck did they get enough fucking wood for all these fucking ships. People have benn living on the Iron Islands for thousamds of years, cutting down trees to build houses and ships and to heat their homes. And yet these islands, which are know to be very bare,  still have enough fucking trees to build a thousand ships. Not to mention the fact that they seem to have built them in like a few months. What the fucking fuck

Edit: I mean they're always talking about how they hardly grow any food on the islands, so they cant really have large forests, beacuse what is a forest other unconverted farmland? You might be able to with a modern sailboat with triangular sails.  rather than acting like a parachute, the sails act like a wing.  This lets you sail to within maybe 45 degrees of of upwind [picture](https://sites.google.com/a/washingtonyachtclub.org/new-member-guide/_/rsrc/1472781216238/intro-to-sailing/turning-and-points-of-sail/pointsofsailJas.png?height=400&width=358)I'm just gonna nonchalantly drop a link here to that [demystifying naval jargon post](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/2ten0e/no_spoilers_demystifying_the_use_of_naval_jargon) from a few years ago if anyone needs a refresher on ASOIAF boats and ships after reading thatYou're right about medieval naval combat being more rare than the preceding and ensuing eras. To field a good fighting navy through a war you need coordinated logistics and recruitment (ie: centralization), something the feudal era notably lacked. There was generally little to no difference between warships and trade ships (especially sailing ships), at least not until the 1400s.

You're also right the George generally seems to get it right in the books about what sort of ships serve which purpose: fighting ships and those built for speed and maneuvering rely on oars, those built to move a bunch of stuff rely on sails.

I assume the show's version of Silence is just going for sheer epicness, so they combined the massive size of a sailing ship with the intimidating bow-ram of a galley, regardless of whether or not such a merger would be practical IRL. Ser Twenty was just too powerful.>It's 2017 and people are still calling Krackens "spear chuckers"I'm sorry maybe myths were once a powerful force in  this world, but no longer > Mythbusters! Maester Edition

Oh man, if onlyOr you know, 100 mute slaves?  Maybe it's like a ram on a pendulum?  Maybe when you see it as it is in the show it is pulled back and "locked in ready position?  Just release a couple of hooks and it swings forward as a battering ram.  That'd be pretty sweetThe ancient romans used to mount grappling hooks on ballistas and shoot them out, they would be mounted on top of the ship though. They could be used for simple firing at enemy ships or with a rope attached in order to pull the enemy ship within range of the corvus (a boarding bridge). Also there is the archimedes claw which is a bit different but still very effective. The Silence is a Transformer, confirmed?Spice_Mayor meant that he was wondering if it can shoot dragons *as projectiles*Looks like it's angled too low to hit a ship that far away. It lacks the ability to swivel left and right, it seems like a ship-to-ship weapon. It's not a reference to anything, it's just that he noticed the thing on the front of the ship is likely a grappling hook of some kind and showed how it would work in MSPaint.

The Silence is the ship at the head of the Greyjoy fleet lead by Euron.There's a recent interview out by Pilou which is pretty good - he essentially says his version of Euron is a mix between Ramsay and Joffrey - He has the brutality and visciousness of Ramsay but the childness and impatience of Joffrey. Pilou does state that book Euron is more of a "demon." 

It's different, it's the show's version it's more of a political engagement rather than the magical which... everyone can make a judgement on whether they like one or the other. (I would rather see something new that's a mix between political + a White Walker style power threat but... that's just me).Corvus is also genus for crows and ravens.Thank you for this, I hadn't heard of this before.

>Operating in rough seas, the device became useless and was abandoned.

Great device for someone who brings the storm... but yeah that's a nice article on it. 

>As Roman naval tactics improved and the Roman crews became more experienced, the boarding-bridge was no longer used in battle.

Seems like it would be a poor device for a kingdom that should have known what they were doing with naval combat. I'm just gonna keep ripping on it to justify how much better a compressed air/crossbow chain would have been despite being horribly wrong in the prediction.Yeah this kind of falls into the Littlefinger teleporting criticism a lot of people have. I don't know how much time is meant to have passed since Euron returned and him meeting with Cersei, but I don't think it's enough to make those ships. Even assuming they went and cut down trees from other areas while raiding, not every ironborn can be a shipwright and it should take months to put together a ship.

I think you just have to let it slide for the sake of plot and timing though. If Euron had entered the story back at the same time as the novels maybe he could have made more ships, but then he would be introduced only to be shelved for several seasons doing nothing.Their words are "we do not sow." They don't harvest trees on their islands. They do, however, harvest trees from the Reach, the Shield Islands, and the west coast of the North with little to no resistance. Especially with tension mounting and a giant war looming, no leader is going to field an army to defend their trees from some random ironborn.As someone who's played a lot of "The Legend of Zelda: Wind Waker," I can confirm this.Square rigged ships are absolutely capable of sailing upwind, they simply can't point as high as more modern sail plans. They utilize the exact same principles (bracing the yards forward so that the sails generate lift while the full-length keel minimizes leeway), but they are not as efficient.

That being said, the ships depicted in the show seem wildly impractical and unrealistic to me. They have fanciful sail plans based in part on ancient galleys, which typically relied on oars and could not use their sails except when running before the wind. But the ships on the show don't have the many tiers of rowers that a gallery of that size would almost always utilize except in light air running downwind.

How do they get around that? By only ever showing the ships in light air running downwind.Remember the turtle ship? Fuckin gloriousThis totally ruins my *Assassin's Creed: Black Flag* experience from 4+ years ago. Ramming enemy ships with my sail-propelled ship was my bread and butter. Now I learn it was all a bleeding lie. I hope you're happy, word5mith.Kraken lives matter????Every episode has a montage of Kari, Grant, and Tory cleaning chamber pots.The Romans also had the [Corvus](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Corvus_(boarding_device)) which I think the Ironborn would find quite handy> archimedes claw

Just googled, thats supre interesting. Why don't place like Storms end and White Harbor have that.I hope it's voiced by Peter Cullenyeah, obvsWell Euron and the Ironborn aren't really in the business of naval warfare, they're pirates and raiders. If they sink the other ships, then there's no plunder. It does look like Silence has a ram, but they'd probably rather board and capture enemy ships than sink them.

Also btw, I don't really think a grappling hook would help the ram significantly, since it's probably easier to get speed from the oars than tugging on a grappling hook.Like a harpax. The follow on device to the Corvus. https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/HarpaxOr, like the pirates they are, it's possible they could have ambushed/seized some logging traffic moving lumber around any one of the fourteen seas.  Exactly. I guess it doesn't really matter but it always bother's me, like when Ramsey bolton all of a sudden has like ten thousand horses when stannis attacks winterfell. But it just seem like lazy writing, or they couldn't come up with a logical way to make things  work.I know, but just think about the insane amount of trees you need to build that amount of ships, and the amount of people needed to cut them down and move them. It would require thousands of workers to be able to do what they did in that amount of time. And even if lords aren't willing to protect a few trees. They probably aren't to thrilled with a fuckton of hostile people coming onto their land.Word fmithWell, you can still ram with a sail-propelled ship. It's just that it's really way less effective if unless the wind is directly behind you. So a whole lot less practical.Holy shit, I just realized I want Black Flag ship combat in a WWI or WWII era ship. Like some rogue mercenary frigate crew wrecking shop.Nonsense, let yourself get lost in some movie-magic (or videogame magic in this case)! Perhaps your scrappy Caribbean pirates figured out how to use a practical steam engine 50 years earlier than their nautical contemporaries... and also reinforced their ship with steel... and poured over a few manuscripts on Roman naval combat theory...they got rhythm   
they got music   
they got scrubby brushes    
who could ask for anything more   Even better would have been if they stole the ships like Victarion does as that seems a lot more realistic, but there's no way they have time for something like that so we have little jumps like this.If Euron was left with maybe 50ish decently sized boats after Theon and Yara bailed and he manned each with 20 blokes with axes they could chop down and bring back the materials to build maybe a third of a new ship each time... I mean I'm not good at math but there's exponential growth in there somewhere. The speed of shipbuilding probably isn't the problem, that's basically all that iron islanders do. The bigger problem is that wood needs to cure for a year before it's much use in building ships in the first place.It isn't really that it isn't effective, it's that the Age of Sail had relatively powerful cannons going against relatively week wooden hulls. Ramming would work just fine, but the ships guns were plenty destructive. Once ironclads became popular, ramming came back into fashion because the cannons had such a hard time damaging the armor. Of course, once advances in munitions made cannons effective against armor again, ramming faded back into obscurity.Goulash specialThis is true. But also, you say building ships is pretty much all they do,and that may well be true, but it's still all about supply and demand. There might only be demand for 10 or 20 new ships a year. so there should really only be enough trained ship builders to meet that demand. So when Euron wants to go build a fuckton of ships, who is gonna build them. There has probalby never been demand to build a thousand ships so there aren't nearly enough people who know how to build ships to build all those ships. 

Also when Cersei and Jaime are talking they talk about how they havent talked about Tommen and are just staring to discuss strategy and Euron seems to arrive the same day. So It doesn't seem too long after the last season ended. And it just doesn't make sense that Euron could build that many ships in that amount of time.Guy who offered Aria wine was kid from This is England. Somehow this bothered me more than Sheeran.I don't even know who that is although I can guess which character he played. People complain too damned much about anything they can, I liked every scene and think this was the best episode GoT ever had. It had just one flaw and that was the fact that Dany just walked through an unsecured castle without even thinking about the possibility of an ambush.Ehm... who is Ed Sheeran?Yeah it just really ruins immersion to see such a familiar face. I mean, it's almost as bad as that fantasy series from a years back - I mean come on, casting Sean Bean as the guy who dramatically dies at the end of the first act?

That was such an obvious pander to fanboys, no wonder that series was such a failure.Because it was utterly out of place and absolutely unnecessary.

It completely removes you from the scene. In an absolute instant you're not watching Arya on her journey, you're watching a pop-star getting shoehorned into a program. Completely baffling decision. 

Between this and some of the worst writing I've seen in the series, it was like watching Game of Thrones get turned into some shitty US sitcom. The guy is as common as they come. Had a good singing voice. I don't get why everyone's pissed. By the way, how do I get on the show? Everyone tells me I look like I should be on it. 

Now, if it had been beyonce, they would have hell to pay! People need to learn to distinguish fantasy and reality. 

Some sub members upload handdrawn/painted pictures of Kit Harrington, for example,   and claim they have drawn a picture of Jon Snow. 

If Ed Shreen was revealed to be Azor Ahai and Taylor Swift his Nisa Nisa, then I see a problem. 
I don't understand either. Feels like people who hate him for no reason trying to justify hating him. They say seeing him breaks their immersion because he is so recognizable. How the hell can they watch any movie or show with actors in them? I saw Jim Broadbent as the Archmaester but I didn't say " o thats totally immersion breaking, they expect me to believe Prof. Slughorn is also a professor in ASOIAF?, Pfft fuck him."I didn't hate it at all, I'm a big fan & knew he would already make an appearance in the Season. Also, he didn't take me out of the show too much. I thought he did a well enough job with his role & singing, also that kid who offered her the drink with the eyes stole the scene. He was fantastic, so Ed really wasn't a big dealI thought he did great. Great face for a common soldier, great deliveries... the singing... I legitimately don't get it.Not everyone hated it.I loved his cameo. I don't think they created the scene just to showcase him, in fact, I think it would have gone the same way with a random person in the part, even the singing and the specific song, because I believe it is foreshadowing related to Jaime and Cersei. Ed Sheeran totally looked the part, his voice sounded right for Westeros and his lines were delivered naturally. After his initial song, the focus was much more on the dark haired soldier and his backstory than Ed Sheeran. I honestly would have been disappointed if his cameo had been a smaller part. I thought it was precisely what it need to be, and the scene itself was also very good for Arya's character. So yeah, I really agree with your assessment.Did you watch that movie with former NBA player Shaquille O'Neal where he's a superhero? Well, there's this scene where he needs to throw a grenade through a small hole. So he throws it like you throw a basketball, because you know, he's actually a basketball player IRL.

I don't mind Ed Sheeran playing some random dude. But him singing there and the camera doing that closeup felt like **HEY, IT'S ED SHEERAN! HE PLAYS A DUDE THAT SINGS BECAUSE HE'S ED SHEERAN THE SINGER, YOU KNOW.** It felt like that scene with Shaq.I, like more than a few of you, had no idea that it was anyone special singing.He was an advertisement I didn't even know who it was, but didn't like the scene because it felt so out of place. 

I don't know who this band of Lannister solders are, or where they were stationed, but they seem pretty innocent compared to the world we've been experiencing for years. 

Couple the fact that Sheeran makes an appearance for a musical cameo and it just seems like a forced commercial break that was forced into the show.Ramsay Bolton and Grey Worms actors are also fairly popular singers. Maybe not so much so as Ed Sheeran, but guess what? People do things. Get over it.The scene itself felt unnecessary (maybe we'll see next week if the interaction has any lasting effect on Arya), and having a SUPER obvious cameo brings absolutely nothing to the table. In a season that was delayed at least once, with storylines being rushed and character being cut for costs (remember direwolves?), it's just strange they would even bother with something like this.It felt like an Ad that was my only gripeI don't know how anyone can be okay with it. Fuck singers being actors. Mark Wahlberg needs to go. I just see Marks Mark every time.

/s Am I the only one who initially thought it was Rupert Grint and somehow he bought a singing voice with all that Harry Potter money he didn't put in an ice cream truck? (shrug...)

I didn't know who it was, the wife had to inform me the next day rewatching it, and I certainly don't care. It was a great scene, and likely one to shape Arya later.

Maybe he'll go the rest of his life thinking he's a Lannister soldier, like how Robert Downey Jr. actually thinks he's Iron Man. Perhaps that'll make it okay with folks?For me, personally, it was more of "What favors did Ed Sheeran have to do in order to get so much screen time on this show." Game of thrones is so big, I highly question the need for cameos on the show. Whenever a famous singer/band makes cameos, it's usually always for publicity. I wasn't a fan with the others, and I was especially not a fan with Sheeran's.

Unlike the other cameos, his seemed more blatant. The other cameos, they were more background treats who would sing/perform and would be gone. Sheeran stayed in shot for the majority of the scene while sitting next to Arya which was highly distracting since all I was doing was judging his acting capabilities.

It's just something I disagree with. Be it Ed Sheeran, Lady Gaga, or Justin Bieber. Please leave publicity cameos out of the show. It's not needed. That said, I think that he did a great job acting and his voice was great!It took me out of the scene. It would be like if Dany was inspecting Unsullied and one of them turned out to be Drake.The singing was too much for me personally, otherwise I liked the scene..

I can't blame him for taking the opportunity to be part of the show.It didn't bother me because I didn't know who the fuck Ed Sheeran was.I loved it. As someone who has only listened to his song from The Hobbit, I thought he did a damn fine job. Not sure if he knew the other Lannister men being played, but they worked together pretty well. 

I think it only really irks the people who admire Ed and listen to his music on a regular basis. I, on the other hand, love that he breathed life into a song from the books and think all of it worked out great. I don't even know who he is, but the camera did focus a lot on him which made me suspicious. After the show I learned he was a pop star of some sort. It was awkward how they zoomed in on his face, had him sing, and then he disappears from the convo as everyone else chimes in. It made it stick out a ton that he was there just to be a singing pop star, he didn't act, he dressed up and sang in the show Game of Thrones. It's like if Tom Brady had a cameo where he just throws a football and then looms in the background for a while.I LOVE LOVE LOVE Ed Sheran almost as much as I love GOT and that's why I didn't really like seeing him in the show. When I see Jon Snow on the screen, I don't think oh it's Kit Harrington. When I see someone like Ed Sheran pop up, I recognized him as Ed Sheran and it takes me out of the show a bit. I'm focusing more on him than on the dialogue. If he were a regular character and we had time to get to know him as the character and not as Ed Sheran it would be different. People need something to complain about.Because his singing style was totally inappropriate and he ruined Symon's song and his acting was fucking shit and pulled me right out of the episode.

Do I need any more reasons m'lord, or am I just allowed to have a fucking opinion? yeah, during the past seasons, all i can think about is how a father seeing his daughter ran away with a pirate, lost faith, or started one of his own...>Ed Sheeran

Who?I loved the scene. We get to see a side of not only the Lannisters, but soldiers that we rarely see. Those who are fighting that just want to go home. It forces Arya to see that not all Lannister soldiers are bad. In Arya's mind, everyone who is against Stark is evil. This scene shows us and her that this is not true. And I forgot about Ed Sheeran halfway through because all he did was sing and say like one line. It was a cameo done right.Thankfully, I'm wildly out of touch with popular musicians these days so didn't know who he was and just got to enjoy the scene.Its about as ridiculous and incogruent as dave chappelle making a cameo, like arya is walking through the woods and stumbles upon him dressed as a peasant but smoking weed. I personally had no idea who that was, so I can't say I'd would have been irked or not. 

The only reason I'd be irked if D&D spent a lot of money having him appear. I heard he did get paid, which is not a problem. How much, though? If it was significant, then the showrunners most likely sacrificed better scenes just for Maisie's muse. That would be a slap in the face to fans. 

Is any of this Ed's fault? No.I honestly didn't like it because the directing made the scene feel more about an Ed Sheeran cameo than a scene in which Ed was present. Unlike other cameos they literally zoomed in on his face and focused on him even while Arya was talking. That was my only gripe. The other two actors were a better addition. They might as well have had klaxons and bright signs on the screen alerting us to his presence, that's what annoyed people.  At least the previous cameos are subtle and on screen for just a flashI now want Tom Araya to have a cameo as a wildling or a northman. It could totally work. I wish Arya had killed them allThe only real issue I had was the immediate two focusing/closeup shots of his face as Arya walks up to the group. That was a bit too heavy-handed for me ("Here's our cameo star!" instead of a subtle pan across the group). Other than that, the cameo that didn't bother me. Not his fault, just the execution.

Edit: Thinking about it more and rewatching, I wouldn't be surprised if he has the most screen time in that scene (if not, only a few seconds behind Maisie), with a ton of closeups. Very in-your-face, literally. But after rewatching even more, he just becomes another face in the crowd, at least for me... so the rage should subside. I'm thinking about this stupid stuff too much.

First watch, the perfect singing/appearance irked me a bit... the group is supposed to be weathered from the long war. But he is team Lannister, so I guess he can get the possible prettyboy type pass.

Personal context on ES: Didn't know what the guy looked like until day of w/ people retweeting his behind the scenes w/ crew pics, so he immediately popped out when the scene came up. Knew he was a singer and had a cameo.In this thread: "I didn't mind, I don't even know who he is lol"Ironically Ed Sheeran was far better acting in this episode than he was singing. The singing was really jarring but the acting felt right at home.Most people who weren't bothered by the cameo always preface there comment with they don't know who Ed Sheeran is. Which is fine for them, but for those of use not completely disconnected from modern pop culture, it was so fucking unsubtle. He is one of the biggest pop stars right now and having a close up of his fucking face was ridiculously corny. The reason we can separate Tony Stark from RDJ is because he is the lead in the movie. It isn't a cameo. This was a cameo. There is a difference. All the other cameos in GoT have been subtle so they didn't shift focus from the scene.


Also, what was the point of this scene anyway? It didn't really progress the plot at all. You can argue that there was some character development with Arya, but with everything else happening in Westeros I think there are other more interesting plot lines to develop. Either way, even if the scene did serve some narrative purpose it was totally undermined by the cameo. The only thing I and a lot of other people where thinking during this scene was "why the fuck is Ed Sheeran on the screen right now?" Not, "oh gee I guess Arya just learned that not all soldiers in the Lannister army are horrible people."Suspension of disbelief, in some amount, is necessary to enjoy any work of fiction. In film and TV there is a special incentive for the production to limit how much effort is required for an audience to become immersed in the story by controlling the visual character of the scenes where unconvincing sets and dialects or poorly written dialogue could shake a viewer out of the fantasy easily. Once awakened it takes time to settle back into the dream and if jarring, ill fitting pieces keep poking their heads up it can entirely alienate an audience. 

Ed's appearance wasn't the only example of this in the premiere either.

Seeing Euron dressed in a leather jacket that does not conform to the established aesthetics of the show, that fits him as no other garment seen in the series up to this point has fit it's wearer and that has never been seen before made me think "the wardrobe department have gotten forgotten the setting". As soon as that happened I was awake, watching actors wear silly costumes and shake their hands about. I didn't know he was going to be in the episode and I didn't know what he looks like or know any of his songs. It just seemed like a normal scene to me, there are plenty of other scenes with singing like that in past episodes.Sometimes I think people are just looking for things to complain about. It's idiotic.i didn't even recognize him. but i don't listen to popular music so..

he did have a good singing voice.It just your typical manufactured, horseshit "hate/outrage".  If people were taken about the moment, I suggest not watching television or movies in general.  Chock full of them especially when something is as popular as GoT.  Al Bundy in Modern Family, Peg Bundy in Sons of Anarchy, Hal in Breaking Bad, James T. Kirk in Boston Legal, Ice-T in Law & Order: SVU, etc.  I could go on and on.


Ed was offered a very minor role and accepted it because he was a fan....like everyone else in this subreddit.  He said two lines that wasn't even remotely influential to the overall story.  If you had a problem, blame the camera direction.  This was just pretentious fans doing what they do best -- being dickwads about something they don't like.Just letting you guys know: the world is not entirely the USA and Europe. Outside those areas your "celebrity" is basically no one. I was chatting with two different premiere "parties" in other countries while attending one myself, and lo and behold NO ONE recognized Ed Sheeran. 

No one. I flat out laughed. It took me out of the GoT world for a minute until Arya saiid what she said ITT: The people that have no problem with Ed Sheraan are also the people that doesn't recognize him. The people who didn't like him reconized him, and therefore found him out of place. Weird how that works.i can suspend my disbelief just fine. but the show is not asking us to suspend our disbelief anymore. it is asking for permission to be incredibly weird and stupid.

i am a book fan, and believe it or not, i didn't set out to be a buzzkill. i am happy i got four good seasons from the show. if more people read the books because of the show, that's great. it's just that if the first four seasons were the original Star Wars, we're now launched well into 90s prequel territory, and *it kind of sucks.* we even had our own Jar Jar, and we called it Dorne. us snobby book nerds and early season show nerds may be intolerable sometimes, but the transition really has been that jarring.

between Ed Shireen and Euron Popstar, i don't even think i'm watching Game of Thrones anymore. i think what i am watching is not even a fanfic, but an extended parody cut from a Game of Thrones SNL skit. complete with celebrity cameos.

the scene was great. I cant honestly name a real Ed song, but I knew his face just from being famous. I don't care that he was in the episode and they used him well(singing). What I don't like his how the camera framed him.. from that alone you could tell he was special and different from normal actors/extras.. TBH I was more focused on the dark haired guy who had a wife thinking he was about to harm Arya in some way(before he mentioned he had a wife).>Are you incapable of watching Ironman movies because whenever Tony Stark is on screen all you can say is, "Hey, that's Robert Downey Jr. Nope, not buying the fact that he has an arc reactor in his chest."

That's obviously not the issue, you're equating actors doing their jobs to celebrity cameos for the sake of a celebrity cameo.

The point you're making would be 'hey I can't get my head around this being Kit Harington'. That's ridiculous. Ed Sheeran specifically got a cameo playing some music so we would go 'that's Ed Sheeran!' or are you suggesting that you sat there, sage, and went 'ah, a Lannister soldier with a skill for song! I wonder where he picked that up from... perhaps we will find out later on'.The problem was the known face dropped for a very short amount of screen time, AND with minimal "acting" for him to disappear into his role.

If you watched Suits and Justin Bieber appeared prominently, without much dialogue given to him, you'd have a hard time forgetting that it's Justin Bieber. It feels more like a cameo. And that can take you out of the experience because you've got this juxtaposition of real vs fiction.Never heard of the guy, so guess i didnt mind the cameoLOL I read all the way up until Ed Sheeran and thought it was about boy band EuronThe dialogue made sense. He was getting through to Arya that *they're all pawns* and that maybe they're not bad people. They're people commanded to kill other people commanded to kill them.

It kind of made sense a notable guest was featured in a minor but impactful role.

The focus on Arya made sense as it was a lesson being taught to her.I hate that people aren't allowed to dislike the cameo.

People keep saying people just like to bitch or are spoiled. Are we supposed to be a circlejerk sub where we just praise everything that happens on this show?>He really only sang a tune (which is straight from the books by the way)

Wasn't it the song about Shae that Tyrion murdered the singer over? Made him into stew or some shit.

That was my objection: Ed Sheeran shouldn't know the song because its author was made into soup before anyone ever heard it.My problem with it was how prominently he was placed on screen. If he was one of the guys on the other side of the fire and tou could see him in the backgrpund it'd be less jarring. He was in the foreground for the other guys lines. Also his line was a bit on the nose and wholly unnecessary.I watched the episode yesterday, so I had already seen everyone's reactions - otherwise, I likely wouldn't have had any issue with seeing Ed's face. Hell, when the camera was cutting back and forth between the Lannister soldiers, I lost track of which one exactly he was.

However, his singing voice took me out entirely. He *sounded* like a modern, professionally trained pop star.

But once the scene was over, I forgot about him completely. So I guess I didn't love him or hate him.I bet next episode we will get a scene with the boys waking up in the morning with Arya being gone, one of the soldiers will ask: "Where'd the girl go?" and Ed's character will be like: "She ran away" I didn't know who it was until after the fact, but I still couldn't care less. I thought it was a great scene, he fit in well, and I liked the song, which was taken from the books. I don't really see what the problem is. It's as if people completely forgot that each and every person in the show is just an actor/actress. Even after rewatching it, it doesn't have the feel of trying to be an advertisement or endorsement or some shit. Just a casual cameo. I also didn't ever realize that a member of both Coldplay and Snow Patrol had cameos once as well. I think HBO utilized them all nicely.It was a lame choice, it's as simple as that. It's not a big deal, it doesn't ruin the scene or episode, but it was dumb for all the main reasons listed elsewhere. It's not just about 'breaking immersion', it's about being a stupid choice. It's the kind of thing that's starting down the path of having Rihanna or a Kardashian play a waitress or something and be shown prominently for no reason other than to be 'cute' because someone in the cast really likes them. 

And this is not comparable to any other time a musician has had a cameo in the show. Some Coldplay member (who is not Chris Martin) is the minorest of minor celebrities and he was pretty much background, practically unnoticeable. 

But anyway, you don't have to be condescending or dismissive of people who are just criticizing a bad choice. I hate how this stuff all gets called "complaining" for the sake of it. Plus the reaction to this episode has been overall very positive, if a lame cameo from a pop star and a bad punk rock outfit on Euron are virtually the only things people can find to pick apart about the episode that should say something. If it was just a simple cameo it would have been fine but the camera just keeps lingering on him and the writers just cant help but include forth wall breaking humour ("its a new song") which ruins the tone of the scene. I had absolutely no problem with the cameo.  Part of the reason was because I didn't recognize him at first.  However, when I realized who he was it still didn't bother me.  It is like you said, you separate fantasy from reality.  Now, if his performance would have been bad then I would have an issue with shoehorning in a pop star for a cameo, however, he did pretty well.

>  The only real umbrage I could understand was there was one shot where the camera was focusing on Arya's face in the background, meanwhile an uncofucsed Ed Sheeran's face was prominently in the foreground.

I can't even see an issue with that.  That is a *very* common type of shot, especially in Game of Thrones.I recognized him but didn't know or care who exactly he was while watching the episode. I thought the scenes with him were just fine.I had honestly no idea who he was or that it was a big deal until I popped over to Reddit after watching the episode.  I don't listen to the radio so I had no idea who he was so it didn't take me out of the scene at all.When the only bad things about an episode come from nitpicks and "ed sheeran muh immersion!@$!@!!" then you know it was a good episodeIt was the first time I didn't feel immersed I guess? I really thought nothing of it but when I saw him I saw ed not the character. It was a smart move he had no lines though. Was a neat little cameo none the less and if I was ed I would've done it in a heartbeatI enjoyed the scene but I think his appearance would have been more appropriate as a minstrel in a tavern on the road not dropped in amongst Lannister soldiers (or soldiers in general for that matter). However I'm glad they finally used that song from the books!!! I didn't *hate* it, but it's hard to argue that it wasn't distracting. Bronn-
https://youtu.be/r5V8ecsrxeY

Grey worm-
https://youtu.be/iiqF9KRgyck

Ramsay-
https://youtu.be/Rv_nBEgwCawBecause the internet has given a voice to people who are looking to get offended by something.I enjoyed his apperance, but my immersion actually got broken, because he looked so clean and innocent... I would've loved for them to have dirtied him up a bit. Y'know, like giving him a gazillion scars, a weird haircut, or at the very least have him grow a beard.

And I would've loved for him to wound up the scene with another song.Because I don't know or care who this person is and yet people here will not shut up about himIt sort of takes you out of the moment, you're following these characters and then it's suddenly Ed Sheeran's face in full shot for a couple of seconds. Kind of ruined the immersion. 

I've seen people comparing his well-known face to Sean Bean being Ned, or Jim Broadbent playing the Maester, but they're actors. Their scenes didn't feel thrown in just because they're famous in the real world. Same with Robert Downey Jr as Ironman. No, you're not thinking "Hey, that's Robert Downey Jr!" (at least, you shouldn't be, or they're a bad actor). There's clearly a difference. Compare his cameo with Sigur Ros or the members of Coldplay; the scene wasn't bult around them, they weren't in nearly every shot.I thought this was going to be about Eurons house DJ outfit.
which I disliked as much as everyone else disliked Ed Sheerans appearance.
Because Sheeran is a mainstream pop artist and the screechy neckbeard basement dwellers that have nothing better to do than complain about everything on the internet all day hate having something they like associated with something teen girls like.

Even they know in their hearts this is true.i didn't even notice. I know of him but didn't really bother me. In fact I enjoyed the scene and thought it to be very realistic of a group of military men shooting the shit and seeing a pretty lady and inviting her over. The conversation about wanting to go back home and things to return to normal struck a cord with me as a veteran. They started off excited for adventure and saw the world for how it really was.Here's a question: what if the singer who cameo'd was Justin Bieber? I feel like you would find that intensely distracting.

For me, that is how distracting I found Ed Sheeran's cameo. I didn't know who it was until afterwards and I certainly didn't notice anything odd while watching.Although the scene has an important purpose it felt a little like a "let's see how we can put Ed in the show though". I hated it when I first saw it, the second time it wasn't bad and I do think the hate the scene is getting is too much.I didn't see the problem at all, the scene as fine.  I wasn't thinking oh that's Ed Sheeran.had absolutely zero impact on me and i'm tired of hearing that "the scene didn't mean anything".

the scene meant a lot and we'll find out soon.I don't see what all the fuss is about. I really like that the show gets singers to cameo during the singing parts. They've done it several times. I don't think Ed ruined any scenes and I liked the scene in general.I didn't know who Ed Sheeran was until I saw people upset he was in the episode.  I thought he was fine in it.The hate is overblown.

Of course, I didn't know who the guy was until my twitter blew up. What stood out to me was how out of place the whole scene was.  In this show you meet people like Polliver, Biter and Rorge and you remember them. The sweet young soldiers of House Lannister will soon be forgotten, or she finds them all dead later on charred by one of the Dragons, which I think would be pretty interesting. Until about 5 minutes ago, I didn't figure out which one was Ed Sheeran. So didn't bother me.do you people really not see that it's different when it isn't an ACTOR 

jfc I was more upset that the scene didnt end in a quadruple murder/attempted rape. 

"be kind to strangers.." seemed very out of place for westeros. I dont know how to feel about how cheesy that scene was.[deleted]I recognized him from news articles and thought "that's Ed Sheeran." But I don't know his songs so it didn't bother me. Did it take me out of that moment? No more than anything else I suppose. I can't really expect only unknowns for every role. I was so not familiar with the person in the cameo, that even after I learned that there was a cameo in the first place after seeing all the reactions after the episode, I assumed then that it must have the dude with the long black hair until an article had a captioned photo of the actual cameo. Being almost completely disconnected from current pop culture trends has its perks sometimes, I guess?  

Not really being able to recognize Ed Sheeran, it seemed perfectly in-place with the episode.  There are characters in the books that sing, so I half thought it was one of him.  Then the song was also from the book, so I thought it was at least referencing two plotlines but adapting them to the show's format.  None of it bothered me.  
[I think this is the proper way to do a cameo](https://youtu.be/-uy5LCiNBt4).

With the random close up of his face it seemed like they really wanted to stress "hey we got a high profile celebrity to do a cameo!!" and less about the scene. It certainly took me out of the moment, and everyone I was watching with, so the scene lost its impact.
That was one of the best none story important scene's in the entire show's history, showing that not all Lanister soldiers are monsters like Arya used to think. And Sheeran did a good job in his limited role. I don't get what people are bitching about.  I had no idea who he was. I still have no idea who he is. I don't know why people care. They seem to care because HBO thought they'd care....?

I don't know. He means nothing to me so I guess I don't have input on this.I didn't know Ed Sheeran's face tbh so 0 fucks given. I just wondered why the Lannisters suddenly learned to sing.Ed Sheeran is one of the most peasant-looking motherfuckers I've ever seen. He looks like he hasn't left his village in nine generations. So in that sense it worked perfectly.I don't get why people are so butthurt about it.  Ed Sheeran looks like an average English bloke like the rest of the actors playing the soldiers, and he can sing on his own and it sounds bardlike and not like modern pop (plus, everyone joined in for the chorus).  It was honestly some pretty damn good casting if it wasn't just a cameo.  It sounded like the script was written for just some extras and they added Ed in afterwards with no change to the script. 
 Most likely, Ed probably came to HBO/D&D and said "hey can I be on the show as just some bloke with a couple lines" just like Daniel Craig asked if he could be in Star Wars, and the cameo made sense.  

If you didn't know who he was, it didn't even look like a cameo.  There was no more focus on him than there was on everybody else.  His acting wasn't terrible, but it didn't have to be excellent because he was just playing a soldier with a few affirming lines.  People get so worked up about this show when they have no reason to.The only reason he was in that scene was so they could say "Look, its Ed Sheeran". There was no point to him other than that reason. Sean Bean is there to be Ned Stark, not Sean Bean. Mark Addy is there to be Robert Baratheon, not Mark Addy. David Bradley is there to be Walder Frey, not to be David Bradley. Ed Sheeran is there to be Ed Sheeran, not a lannister soldier. That is why people are complaining about it breaking immersion. 


Their [Facebook page](https://www.facebook.com/GameOfThrones/?hc_ref=ARRgXsFqhRIGjEMWlJ0Cm7QYBIxdtifUX-9K3FmPVlZ4bZM0ung14usV2a0eAHSi8lw&fref=nf) won't fucking shut up about it either, as if you needed any more evidence it was a marketing gimmick.


There have been other famous "guest stars" before but none of them look like rejected muppets or get the camera shoved in their faces. I thought it was fine overall, but my one issue was with how long they held that close up shot in just his face when he wasn't doing anything other than looking at Arya - it came across as a "hey look who this is" moment to me and slightly hurt the immersion.My biggest problem is that it has no use. Why is he in it?

Are they just gonna throw every celeb that wants to be in the series in it? As a background soldier?

Also, like cusephenom said, I think the complaint is that dropping a known face in a minor role that comes out of nowhere can take the viewer out of the moment. Instead of thinking about the tension of Arya coming upon a group of Lannister soliders, you may be thinking, "Hey, is that that guy who sings that song?"

The outrage around it is definitely over the top, but I still disliked that they did it. Funny how nobody is mentioning Thomas Turgoose's cameo, and he was in the same scene. Obviously he's not as well known as Ed is, but at least he's an actor.The scene you describe made me feel like Ed Sheeran was winking at the camera. Dude broke the 4th wall.Ed Shireen is Symon Silvertongue.  "It's New" could mean he made it up.  Could be that he knew Shea from the Lannister camp at the Inn at the Crossroads in AGOT before she was found by Bronn. 
Also, I had no idea who Ed Shireen was until after seeing the cameo, and he was really good.  I liked the scene.  I could tell that they were doing a celebrity cameo without even knowing the celebrity. That should not be happening.People like to complain. It didn't take me out of the scene. I was happy that he got to be on the show as he seems like a decent guy and he loves the books and show.I didn't even know who he was until everybody was outraged. Obviously, singing Hands of gold without it´s book context felt kinda random, but I can live with that. It's telling that this is not the first time Game of Thrones has done this exact stunt, but nobody complained about it before. I'm sure plenty of people don't even know what I'm talking about.

People are just jumping on the outrage bandwagon.Because people are spoiled and like to complain about every fucking thingPoor guy deleted his twitter. I loved his character, not because he was Ed Sheeran but because we had the rare occasion of hearing a real song from the book. I've always wondered what those songs sounded like and how they were performed and his appearance brought it all to life. Especially loved how we heard the voice at the beginning and love him or not, he has a beautiful voice.Actually, yes, it is difficult me to separate the actor from the character. I don't know why. I tend to avoid TV shows or movies with very famous actors. I think that's why I drifted away from visual entertainment and towards books. In books the character is only the character. It feels more real to me. It broke the 4th wall and my enjoyment of the episode. 


ETA: Rupert Grunt would have been much better suited, probably  significantly cheaper and aesthetically no difference.Game of Thrones has built itself a great world by using character actors who aren't recognizable, Walder Frey & Ned Stark are the only characters i can think of who are portrayed by an actor i was previously familiar with, that makes it seem like you're looking into a totally new world you've never seen before, bumping into a famous musician in the woods like an episode of Scooby-Doo kind of pulls you out. I'm a big fan of the band Mastodon, and they've made multiple cameos, but they're always White Walkers/Wights so you can't recognize them, hell i've never caught them in an episode, i've only seen the band members post screenshots of them. The drummer of Mastodon was in the season premiere too, i believe. I like it. I'm not a huge fan of him normally but I think putting a recognisable face among the Lannister soldiers helped with the scene as a whole. 

The scene was supposed to humanise the Lannister soldiers. In all previous scenes they've either been faceless extras or outright scum. Showing them as friendly likable people is important to Aryas character arc and putting a recognisable star in a role is a good way of making the audience sympathise with them too. I think there'd be a lot less complaining if there wasn't that one shot that was just a closeup of his face for no reason (none of the other soldiers got one). It was almost like they were saying "LOOK IT'S ED SHEERAN". If it wasn't for that shot, I'd be fully in the "why are you guys complaining" campRobert Downey Jr IS Ironman.  Orlando Bloom IS Legolas.  Boromir IS Ned Stark.  

Ed Sheeran in Lannister armour is still Ed Sheeran.  The guy's not an actor, he's a very recognizable British musician.  Having him singing the song when he's not in shot was what started it for me.  Instantly I'm thinking "is that Ed Sheeran?" Was he the best person for the role?  Definitely not.  I don't think it ruined anything but I would rather I hadn't been distracted with the thought thought of Ed Sheeran in Westeros.Well, for starters, I personally always find it immersion-breaking when a famous person who isn't an actor is cast. It's fine, y'know, but seeing a person a immediately thinking "you're just here because you're a good singer, not because you're a good actor" isn't what you want to happen when you're watching an episode. This was fine, though, I'd be able to live with this, it's happened before. The straw for me, however, was when they made the non-actor *singer* actually *sing one of his songs*. Yes, a song tied to the series, I'm aware, but that doesn't make it any less bad. 

First you cracked my immersion, Ed Sheeran, then you shattered it and shat on the shards, too.It was the framing and direction that did it for me..... I had no idea who he was, so I mentioned to my partner.... 

"Who's that guy they keep focuss......"

"OMG That's Ed Sheerhan <3".....

"Oh...."

So, it was less the cameo itself for me, rather practically exclusively the ramrod directing they decided to go with.... *"Look, look everyone..... look who we've got guest starring! Ain't it awesome!?"*

It's 2017, and there will always be people complaining about everything. I've never liked the idea of celebrity cameos on a show like GOT. That being said, that scene was great, and really showed how war can be for the average young soldier. Hearing somebody sing hands of gold like that (and not end up in stew) was pretty awesome.>Hands of gold are always cold, but Ed Sheeran's new album Divide, will keep you warm for £14.99 available in stores and on iTunes this September

I just felt the song was unfitting and really out of placeI think the complaint is that dropping a known face in a minor role that comes out of nowhere can take the viewer out of the moment. Instead of thinking about the tension of Arya coming upon a group of Lannister soliders, you may be thinking, "Hey, is that that guy who sings that song?"

It didn't bother me, but I can see how it bothered others.

Also, people like to be part of the groupthink outrage.I guess because a lot of people think his music sucks (based on the one song I know by him, I agree) and because people generally react unfavorably to stunt casting cameos, especially in shows that are ostensibly serious dramas.

That being said, that scene was probably my favorite one in the premiere. people just love to complain about nothing and are always proud to hate things that are mainstream, pay little attention to them Exactly this.  Some guy was in a show. Never heard of him.  Who cares?Nonono, we're supposed to be so angry and enraged by his cameo ("shit acting")... /s 

Honestly, I knew who he was, went "Oh!" and proceeded to get on with the scene and enjoy the entire episode. Your summary of said scene is how I took it. Yeah, especially since they left the heavy acting to the real actors. But in this case, he was dressed in adequate costume and didn't look any worse or better than anyone else there.Doesn't have much to do with the plot right now...i bet it comes into play later on...it usually does.Same here. Ed, Euron's leather jacket and the Sam/Shit Montage took me out of the immersion and in my opinion were some of the worst additions this show has had since the Sand Snakes. And the Sand Snakes were just bad writing, not even emersion breaking.''It's a new one, you can buy my album on Itunes.com right now!''Ed sheeran is a celebrity also in italy and I'm quite sure in most of europeFunny you mention Suits...there was a whole season featuring Lord Varys and Catelyn Stark, and Louis Litt running around saying how he always pays his debts. This is probably the most sound argument I've seen as to *why* his cameo was so unnerving. The fact that he had no lines to really develop him into a character other than singing a tune and saying, "It's a new one," probably did prohibit the viewers to really interpret him as a character within the show.Same, I mean should I know him? He looked like David Bowie.

Edit: Euron, that is.Not trying to be condescending. Just trying to understand the immense outrage. All the back lash has led him to delete his Twitter account. Did his cameo *really* warrant such a reaction? He did his part in the role well... He sang a tune and sat around the campfire with fellow soldiers. Nothing was out of place with that within the context of being in the world of Westeros. Again, I understand how that could *bother* some people, but I find it a little crazy that it bothers people this much.But it is a new song! 

Like in the books, it is a brand new song written about Tyrion and his illicit visits to Shae.You're probably right. If I didn't know that was Ed Sheeran, I wouldn't have cared that he was in the shot. It would have just been another cinematographic choice.Now THAT would have been quite the cameo. Have Sheeran end the scene singing another tune.> Compare his cameo with Sigur Ros or the members of Coldplay; the scene wasn't bult around them, they weren't in nearly every shot.

Ed is also far more recognizable than Sigur Ros or the Coldplay members that were in the show. He's a solo artist, he's very popular right now, and on top of that all he's got an extremely strange and unique look to him. I don't get people saying this, because obviously if you have no idea who he is then its not going to be a distraction. Like if someone makes a cameo in a comedy and they have a joke about who they are, you wouldn't understand the joke if you don't know who they areSame here. I'd heard about him being in the show this season but wasn't familiar enough with what he looks like to have noticed on first viewing. In terms of actual shots and screen time, they focused on the kid with the buggy eyes who made the blackberry wine and the more handsome, dark haired soldier as much as they did on Sheeran. 

I thought it was a great scene. After all this death and chaos, to get a glimpse into the life of common men who have no stake in the fight besides their lives and families was very moving, especially through the lens of what Arya's been through.That line made me think he had some ulterior motives, and was going to get rapey. Don't worry, I'm 99% sure that they'll all be dead by the end of next episode.It actually wasn't her idea, the show runners wanted to bring him in for a while as a cameo as a surprise to Maisie. In previous seasons the cameo never happened because he couldn't make it work for his schedule.

The first day on set for this scene, Maisie actually had no idea Ed Sheeran was at that campfire.Same. My wife even said hey look its Ed Sheeran but I thought it was a joke about someone singing.

Genuinely thought this post about seeing a pop star was about how Euron looked until the 2nd paragraph...Exactly.

People are gonna be super pissed when Arya steals his face and it's Ed Sheeran that kills Cersi.[I thought it was going to be this.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hK_cyKQjl40_)i didn't even realize that was gary lightbody! i just thought "man they found an actor with a fucking incredible voice to sing that!" yeah, i thought the editing was a little over the top. it really ripped me out of the show, too, because i was excited that it was the game of thrones premiere and the show / actors should be in the spotlight, not a pop star. maybe ep 2. >I don't get what people are bitching about.

Some people just love to complain.> That was one of the best scene's in the entire show's history

Let's pump the brakes a little bit there. It was pretty good.
Teenage angst.I guess it's just an in-joke easter egg type thing, but the whole point of having Bronn cook up old Symon Silvertongue in a nice bowl o' brown was to keep anyone from hearing the song that he'd just premiered for Tyrion.

Maybe the show's more virtuous version of Tyrion wouldn't have cooked the singer and this is the result of not being ruthless enough, i.e., that the song really did go viral.

Of course, by now Tyrion has a rather different set of problems in both book and show, given that Tywin can no longer hang Shae (and extra ironic that he went to such lengths to avoid her death by strangulation by Tywin's noose only to wind up causing it himself with the chain of the Hand).I didn't know this was /r/roastmeHe's oddly cross/wonkey/dead eyed, so yeah.Yeah at first I was like "fucking seriously, an Ed Shereen cameo?" but then I was like, "eh, if they had to throw in a pop star might as well be the guy who looks like a 15th century english peasant". I have a friend that looks like Ed Sheeran. I like to tell him that he's like a less attractive version of Ed Sheeran to piss him off. I didn't know he wasn't the dude with the long hair until today.  I dunno who he is and he nailed the scene.That is cruel but he is an odd looking unit.If his ugly mug wasn't famous then no one would have cared. Just as you said, his face looks very commonplace for Westeros.
Jesus Christ this place and the obsession with bitching about people bitching.


All I've seen are some people nonchalantly stating that it was goofy decision and messed with the suspension of disbelief. Who fucking cares and why do you need an opinion on someone else having an opinion? God forbid anyone make up their own mind, you have to either agree with everything or your "butthurt".

People are not "getting so worked up". You all are literally making up scenarios to complain about people complaining. 


Happens everywhere but this subreddit is particularly nauseating about it.
I've heard the name Ed Sheeran but don't think I've ever seen his face. The scene didn't feel like an obvious cameo to me. If anything I was trying to place the actor who played the Lannister soldier who said his wife had a baby.

His name is Billy Postlethwaite, and he is the son of Pete Postlethwaite apparently, but he hasn't been in anything I've seen.No one in that scene said the words Ed or Sheeran or Ed Sheeran, as I recall.D&D are such fucking divas. This is my rebuttal.

Who gives a crap? I don't even like his music, but it didn't bother me at all. Same with Ian McShane minor role. To me, he had a much bigger presence than Ed Sheeran. He didn't remove my immersion in the show at all.Why was Daniel Craig a stormtrooper in Star Wars episode 7? It's the same thing. Sometimes people are big enough fans of something, that they want to be a part of it. It doesn't matter what part they play, big or small. 

It's probably the same reason here. Dude, just wants to be a part of the biggest show on television but has enough people that he knows in the development of the show that he was moved to the front. You can't blame a guy for that.

Did I have a knee-jerk reaction to Sheeran, yes. Did the scene make sense, yes. It humanized the Lannister soldiers, and I think it'll help quell Arya's hunger for vengeance against every last one of them.

Or needle will do her thing. So it goes.Is an actor appearing in a role really a cameo though? They're actors, it's what they do. I was actually surprised that he hadn't been in the show already, it seems every British actor's going to show up in some way or another. 

when Arya was like I've never heard this one, and then he said "It's a new one" i thought he was going to look at the camera.  sooo eye-roll enducingAfter he was done singing and she said it was a nice song I thought he was gonna say "yeah it's from my new album available now"Thank you.  Exactly.  One of the greatest roller coaster rides on tv is rolling out of the station, and *this* is what people get worked up about. The Sigur Ros cameo in Season 4?  Coldplay in Season 3?Or because it's completely and utterly jarring? 

It could have been anyone else, but no. We get some pop-star shoehorned in for absolutely no benefit for the scene or the narrative. Yeah, they didn't complain about other cameos.  Dude from Coldplay, Sigur Ros played ad Joff's wedding (sorry if I butchered the spelling), the guys from Mastodon, etc...So everybody has to like everything all the time? People have valid reasons to dislike his cameo, but no your right everybody who ever has anything negative to say about anything is just spoiled. This sub is immune to critcism of GOT it seems like. Everytime a complaint is brought up, major or minor, it's not discussed, it's dismissed as complaining. I didn't like the Ed Sheeran cameo because it was entirely unnecessary in so far as he could've been played by anyone and he brought nothing unique to the role. The other cameos that were non-actors pretty much were minor stand outs and didn't have an entire scene dedicated to them, and they didn't open the damn scene with a pop-singer singing. That was really really on the nose. I liked the scene but there are more subtle ways to produce a cameo that don't include singing to make sure people recognize the voice before attaching it to the face. The entire first half of the scene exists specifically to leer at Ed Sheeran, and the whole scene seeme to be pandering to Maisie Williams. There hasn't been a cameo this distracting for me in a way and it made it difficult for me to settle into the scene even though I liked it. Exactly, yes he is the show because he's famous and Maisie is a fan, but he didn't get that much screen time and barely had any lines, most of the scene focused on Arya, the black-haired soldier and the one with the blueberry wine.

I never saw any complaints when other musicians got cameos.There's a surprisingly (depressingly) large segment of people who watch the show just so that they can find things to bitch about. There's enough stuff going on that, if you're looking for things to whine about, you'll always be able to find something. Always. This is the actual answer. Who cares.I think you misunderstand what breaking the 4th wall means. It refers to when characters interact directly with or at least acknowledge the viewer, such as in the case of Frank Underwood in *House of Cards*, or Jim Halpert in *The Office*. Ed Sheeran's cameo here does not break the 4th wall.

Edit: spelling.Celebrity cameos playing regular characters that fit into the universe of a show is not breaking the 4th wall, deadpool talking directly to the audience isOf all things to ruin the enjoyment of the episode a simple and small cameo from a well-known face did it?

I mean.... in this episode we saw a 2-3 minute montage of Sam scrubbing poop and eating soup. We had Euron show up to King's Landing with a fleet of 1,000 ships that he managed to build in a couple months from the IRON islands?!? And Dany showing up to a conveniently unoccupied Dragonstone. Even if there wasn't a Garrison, surely SOMEONE would have moved in during the several months it was abandoned.

I can understand how breaking the 4th wall tarnishes your viewing experience, but you are okay with letting plot holes and other things that don't make sense go unnoticed?Robert Baratheon - Fat guy from A Knight's Tale  
Cersei Lannister - Queen of Sparta from 300  
Jaime Lannister - Protagonist from New Amsterdam  
Tyrion Lannister - "elf" from Elf  
Catelyn Tully - Mom from Harry Potter movies  
Littlefinger - Antagonist from Shanghai Knights  
Bran Stark - Boy from The Awakening  
Drogo - Ronen from Stargate Atlantis  
Shae - ( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)

Sounds like the people that can't separate the two would have a hard time watching The Terminator, the new one with Emilia Clark and Arnold. Do you stand up in the theatre and say "that's not Sarah Connor!! That's the mother of dragons!" 

Can't wait for everyone's reaction when Connor McGregor's scene comes on. The crying will be too much Yup, Brann, Brent, and Bill were all wildlings/wights in Hardhome and then Brann is at the center of the shot of the army of the dead approaching the wall in the first episode this season. This was my main problem with the scene. He practically winked at the camera. Guy singing, shoot to guy singing and pan to the Lannister camp fully, cut to Arya ride and commence the rest of the scene. Not guy singing > Camp > ED SHEERAN'S FACE IN THE WHOLE FRAME. I'd also be in the camp if they didn't have him singing in it as the lead in for the scene and have him go "it's a new one". I rolled my eyes. THe ugly ass blueberry wine actor got a face close up and so did the guy with black hair talking about his son.That certainly is the most glaring problem with his cameo. That shot was a gratuitious "Look it's Ed Sheeran!" shot. It *almost* bothered me, because as you mentioned no other soldier would have gotten a shot like that. But in the end, I felt like it (and his cameo in general) didn't ruin the scene.Prequel Fred Flintstone IS King Robert Baratheonit's telling that whenever people make these comparisons, they always compare him to an actual actorDidn't Boromir bother you in Season 1? This is the epitome of circular reasoning.I didn't recognize him at all. He has like one or two famous songs.people are fucking pathetic, he was on the show for maisie pretty much, since she really adore him. people got so mad about they harrased him on twitter so much that he deleted his twitter. Should've been Billy Boyd!lol it's so true the Ned didn't even get his actors nameI was at a viewing party, and the entire room erupted into "Is that Ed Sheeran?" 

Now, I did not know what an Ed Sheeran was (and honestly still wouldn't know his music if it punched me in the face and said "BITCH I'M MUSIC FROM ED SHEERAN!"), and I can definitely say it took a lot of punch out of the scene. If I watched it alone, nothing would have happened and I'd think "cool, that was a famous dude" after reading about it here, but as it stands, the scene where Arya begins humanizing her enemies was cheapened by his presence. This isn't one of his songs. It was taken word for word from the books. You are misinformed.Is this one of his songs? I have never heard this song anywhere on the radio on itunes anywhere. The Lyrics were written by GRRM how is this an Ed Sheeran song? No one complained when Coldplay did a cameo. No one even knew Coldplay did a cameo through watching the show alone, which is why no one cared.I'm sorry, I just don't understand what about the song was out of place? Ed Sheeran's style and voice sounds very medieval, very folk-music like. The song was just him singing, there wasn't any synthesizer or other out of place instrumentation. And as mentioned before, the lyrics were taken straight from the books.

My question is this, if it had been ANY other random person singing the song and sounding the exact same, would it have felt out of place then?>  take the viewer out of the moment

What took me out of the moment was how unexpected the interaction was. Arya didn't kill anyone. Lannister soldiers are shown to be humans with emotions. 

I was half expecting shit to go down at "and strangers will be nice to you" with a half dozen guys and a single girl in the middle of a forest. That line was just creepy enough to set something off and instead nothing. I have a hard time grasping the "ruins the immersion" argument. People must know that this isn't a documentary filmed in real time. It's a show. Everyone is an actor/actress. Those people like to have money and often take on more than one role in their career. I'm pretty sure that I recognized one of the wolves from that [Blue Wilderness](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YMzh1YsSun0) dog food commercial. I was able to handle it. 

I could understand being bothered if they kept sprinkling in his song lyrics/titles and inserted a laugh track. But it was just a guy singing a song followed by some perfectly adequate acting. I recall a previous scene where a guy (Bronn) sang a song (Dornishman's Wife) followed by some less than adequate acting (bad poosay). I'd rather watch Ed Sheeran's scene, as long as I don't have to see his tits. Remember the youtube guy that gets killed by Sandor in season 6? I have no idea who Ed Sheeran is.

I didn't even recognize him while watching. I was just like wow I remember that song from the books and this guy is a good singer.It didn't bother me because I can no enjoy watching Arya Stark kill Ed Sheeran.This sort of answers why I disliked it. It was distracting, like you said. But to add, I would say it was because he has no business being there. He's not an actor, and there are thousands of actual actors (that can also sing) that would kill for the opportunity. Instead, we get a very out of place celebrity cameo in a show that has never done that before.I have no idea who Ed Sheeran is, I still haven't googled him.

The scene was fantastic and he didn't stand out more than anyone else.Precisely this. Having a known face can really throw off the illusion of reality. Like when Matt Damon appeared in Interstellar, the audience was laughing. Kind of hard to refocus.I didn't even recognize him until someone said it was Ed Sheeran, almost as if I should know that name.He was just another ginger to me, I thought he fit in just fine.I was braced the whole time for Arya and her wolfish servants to descend and tear the whole lot of them apart.I really hate this kind of dismissal of discussion. This is my assessment as well. I can understand that it ruins immersion for like 2 seconds but certainly not the whole scene. This level of outrage speaks to something more. Is he the British version of Justin Beber or something? I thought his singing was good in the show. I never would have noticed how much time he was in the frame if I hadn't heard people complaining about it before my rewatch. He's fitted into the frame a lot but it didn't seem out of place. Arya was sitting right next to him. Your sarcasm doesn't work if literally no one said that to begin with.Yeah I hope it does. Would prefer that it wasn't just shoehorned in for the sake of Ed Sheeran lol."He looked like David Bowie. Euron. Ser. My lady."
-- Pod, TWOW> All the back lash has led him to delete his Twitter account.

Pretty sure that's fake news, I heard elsewhere he had already deleted his account before that.yeah but hes to smart to follow pop musicBecause the logic of people saying the cameo was bad doesn't make sense.  Yes, famous people will be in more than one thing.  RDJ has done more than Iron Man.  Natalie Dormer has done more than Game of Thrones.  Someone already being famous isn't reason to not cast them in a part, even if it is a small bit part.  So what if he is famous?  He did a good job in the roll.  If having him in the show were truly bad, people who didn't know him would have been bothered by his performance.  But they weren't.  It is just people who, apparently, can't see past singers and actors being in more than one thing.Ah OK thanks for the correction.That bothered me more than anything. His costume seemed quite out of place Punk Rock Euron. Probably didn't pay the iron price for that outfit.Wouldn't even be upset tbhIf they did the the scene exactly the same in episode 2 I'd still feel the same way, if you're going to squeeze a high profile celebrity in for a cameo role I'd like to have the same reaction you just had. Finding out after the fact, going back and watching it, so the scene in the show is not wasted upon my first view.

Maybe that's an elitist opinion, it certainly seems like this sub has a strong faction that considers any criticism of the show to be elitist, but in my opinion breaking immersion is bad writing/editing/directing and it was my only qualm with the episode. Alright, maybe not one of the *best* moments, but it's the one of the first scenes in a long time to show the moral gray area that the series was built on. Yeah Ed looks very similar to two other red haired blokes I know. If anything the only real 'jarring' thing about seeing Ed was thinking how my mate Shaun could have easily been a Lannister soldier. Dont know who he is, i was focusing on the hands song.It's because he's famous that people are pissed. His appearance is an advertisement. Imagine if Beyoncé was in an episode.That's the whole point though...he's so famous that I immediately thought to myself "is that Ed Sheeran? Wtf?" It takes my suspension of disbelief and throws it out the window. Especially when you have him say "oh it's a new song wink wink". I'm not watching Game of Thrones for the celebrity appearances, this isn't Entourage. I'm watching it for the story of ASOIAF and this has nothing to do with it. And apparently we can't complain about it at all without getting mobbed by tons of people saying "oh I didn't recognize him so it's not a big deal". I cared when I heard the song before seeing his ugly face. The style was totally inappropriate to the period, to the setting, both historically and fantastically - people don't sing like that in GoT. Like fucking bedwetting bastards wetting the bastard bed.He looks plain, his voice seriously contributed to the scene, and he didn't butcher his 2 lines outside of that. I say he did a bang up job.For once I'm really glad I apparently live in a barrel, since I had no idea who that was while watching the episode. I remember thinking how they found the most perfect dude to play a poor, non-attractive random peasant.If he was Lord Sheer of House Ginger then I'd have appreciated it a lot less.Wasn't referring to people here, but rather the masses on Twitter and beyond who were "outraged"For real tho, William and the other guy (don't know his name) had more lines than Ed.The close up on his face screamed it, though.> Who gives a crap? I don't even like his music, but it didn't bother me at all. 

But it did bother other people. This is apparently really difficult for a lot of people in this sub to understand. Dude that comparison is very unfair since you didn't even know it was Craig until you read it afterwards.Difference is that Craig wasn't show. There's enough fight scenes in the show where they need a ton of Lannister extras with a helmet on. Why not use him for that if he really wants to be in it?

It just annoys me that he can be in it, just cause he wants to. That's like: Hey GRRM, I really like your books can you put my name in it? My name is Washington. Just having a minor character called Washington won't make much of a difference right?

It's not something big, but it's just a little thing that annoys me. If he wanted to be in the show, he could be without having such a focus on him like: LOOK ED SHEERAN IS HERE!! ED SHEERAN IN GAME OF THRONES EVERYONE!!

did they show a close-up of daniel craig's face in star wars tho?  
  
that's the point, those kind of cameos work because they are subtle, this one wasnt subtle at all so it threw some people off.I was surprised Jim Broadbent hadn't shown up before.I see what you mean, but I think a cameo is when somebody appears briefly in one scene. I got the feeling we won't be seeing either of their characters again, unlike say last year - Ian McShane only appeared in one episode, but he was in several scenes playing a somewhat important role to the Hound's story, so that wouldn't be considered a cameo.> when Arya was like I've never heard this one, and then he said "It's a new one" i thought he was going to look at the camera. sooo eye-roll enducing

I found it a cool in-joke, because the show has only used 2 of the songs from the book, again and again. How often have we heard the Rains of Castamere?

So my first reaction in this scene was "Hey, its actually a different song, and it sounds good". When they mentioned "its a new one", it was a perfectly fine sublte jab at the previous monotomy.But it IS a new song, in-universe.

It's inspired by Tyrion's time as Hand of the King, when he hid Shae the whore.

The fact that a real-world pop star said the line just makes it fucking funny.

Are the people of Westeros not allowed/able to write new music? If you separate the fact that it was Ed, you would not have given 2 fucks about it.The shot of him saying that was like a millisecond too long...it felt somehow weird to me But they didn't get nearly as much focus,  on top of not being as popular. Sigur Ros were kinda looking down and didn't say a word, only sing, and were very dressed up. The Coldplay drummer only played and was mixed with a bunch of Freys. 

Sheeran sang, talked and said "it's a new one", looking just like he usually does,  but with an armor and got a bunch of close up shots even when he wasn't talking. The first one that comes to mind for me was the Snow Patrol guy singing Bear and the Maiden Fair.> he could've been played by anyone and he brought nothing unique to the role.

so why does it matter that it was ed sheeran? could your personal dislike of ed sheeran be playing into your feelings here? Are you kidding me? This sub is RIDDLED with complaints about the show. It would be better if more of them were at least insightful, but the majority are just shit like "Ed Sheeran did a cameo...this is the worst show in the history of television."I mean every other time musicians got cameos they were totally irrelevant to the scene.  Sheeran was singing (a song he may have wrote in the story) for like 20 seconds.  The other cameos were small background ones, his was more focused.  Plus more people know Ed Sheeran than Sigur Ros.  It didn't bother me but it was more certainly more prominent than any other cameos.Idk, I watch the show because I love moments like Battle of the Bastards and Winds of Winter. I wanted to see a continuation to that storyline and I want to see the story progress, but I ended up disliking this episode but a few select scenes. Am I watching it just to complain now? I am genuienly trying to like it and I want to continue the story but from a filmmaking standpoint this episode was very weak for me, and people who share my opinion are allowed to share it. It'd be nice to discuss the actual filmmaking and execution without being dismissed as complaining.Argh, people like you are the death to discussions, especially on a sub that has the sole purpose of DISCUSSING this show. If you don't care, don't participate. Easy.you're on a subreddit for asoiaf, people are gonna talk about the show and dissect it, that's what happens. We have posts on here breaking down one sentence interactions into a grand conspiracy... this is peanuts the only thing worse than people saying it was jarring is people making out as if finding it jarring makes you spoilt.For some reason, complaining is easier to most people than praising, and they want to do it. Also, groupthink. Someone starts complaining about something, suddenly everyone complains about that thing. Others' opinions affect yours.We care. The whole point of being on this subreddit is that we care. Not to mention the fact that Euron is the one who looked a musician... the lead singer of some punk band or something to be more specific.  Very odd costume choice, they clearly have no idea what they are going for with the character. I too remember the face of every pornstar I've seen in some obscure german sex tape.Catelyn in Harry Potter? I don't recall thisoh yeah, i had known who Peter Dinklage was because IFC used to play 'The Station Agent' multiple times a week, and (after a while) i realized Little Finger was on The Wire, but all the others i didn't catch. >Can't wait for everyone's reaction when Connor McGregor's scene comes on. The crying will be too much 

To be fair I can imagine them giving him a real cringe-inducing brag line. What's wrong with that? It's a new song by Westerosi standards.Haha, bit rude. He's fantastic in This Is England (moreso the show than the movie)The black haired soldier was the best looking one of the bunch. 

He is William/Bill Postlethwaite, son of Pete Postlethwaite. It almost bothered you but you couldn't figure out why other people might not like it?I think what bugged me about it is how popular he is right now, it seemed like a petty attention grab by the show writers. I know that may not be the case, but it seemed very "CW" to me. Uh, two other soldiers did. And got longer face time. The black haired soldier with a new baby and the soldier offering food.> no other soldier would have gotten a shot like that

I'll have to doublecheck, but I believe a few of the other soldiers got close-ups as well.  Can't deny his popularity.  Record for most singles in the Top 20 at the same time (16).  His third album sold more than the rest of the UK Top 500 combined.  Shape of You has the record for most streamed track on Spotify over a 24 hour period.  First ever artist to debut in the US Top 10 with two singles simultaneously.   Played to a sold out Wembley Arena.  Three nights in a row.

The boy's done good.He's massive in the UK at least, his music is played everywhere.He deleted his twitter weeks ago, that's tabloid pish.  Boys always spoken about disconnecting from social media.

The scene was fine, some people say it was their favourite.I know it's from the books! I said that because I saw a handful of comments saying that him singing this song is a similar situation to when he had that song for *The Hobbit*, where he released or will release a full version of the thing. It's a song from the books. Word for word.And that's how cameos should be. And that's why this cameo was bad.It's out of place because only one person sang that song in the books, and he was killed by Bronn under orders from Tyrion so no one would ever hear it.

That being said I don't care about Ed Sheeran being in it. I heard he had to take a break from twitter from all the hate he's getting; I really didn't think it was that bad though. They have, actually. In "Hardholme", three guys from the metal band Mastodon did cameos as wildlings. No one was excited about that but metal fans, though.

> I have no idea who Ed Sheeran is  

and that's the point. To you he's just some extra guy but to many people he totally sticks out. He's probably a latrine digger. Good job for a ginger.Had no idea that guy was a singer. 

People will just make up anything to complain about.If anything, he fits in better than fine. We're supposed to feel empathy toward these soldiers. What better way to appreciate them as human beings beings than with a face that many people have only good feelings toward?This is where I was at.  When I saw the fuss, I thought, "First, who is Ed Sheeran and Second, why should I be upset he was in the show?"

Not knowing who he was, I thought he fit just fine.I think I might just stick to /r/gameofthrones from now on. This sub is filled with people insulting and dismissing anyone who says anything negative about the show. I want to be able to have an honest discussion about the good **and** the bad parts of the show, without  being told I'm an idiot for having a differing opinion. Ed Sheeran is surely talented and it was an amusing moment of the show, on top of all the poor choices they've made it feels like hating on this is shallow and in poor taste. a non-actor with a cameo isn't even the same thing as an actor playing a different role, and I don't know why you'd try to argue otherwise. For the record I didn't mind Sheeran, took me out of it for a second but other than that it was fine.

It's hardly the first time this sort of complaint comes up, its a pretty damn common thing for an actor to be associated so closely with a role that they have trouble getting other work at times.

I've also said it before, but if Obama or Trump had a cameo would that not seem a bit odd to you? Maybe random cameos don't take you out of it, but that doesn't mean that applies to everyonehttps://www.reddit.com/r/gameofthrones/comments/6nq74d/main_spoilers_anyone_else_think_that_ed_sheeran/dkbmrxs/

This post summed it up better than I could explain. I don't think anyone is outraged, or angry about his appearance, it just felt awkward.yea but it was a minor character with one appearance and three lines. no reason to cast a famous musician other than every headline the next morning being OMG ED SHEERSAAAN IN GOT? 

very very disappointedI'm in the extremely mildly annoyed by ed sheeran cameo camp, but if the series ends with ed sheeran on the iron throne I wont even be madsounds like we agree. yeah, i don't know snow patrol well enough, tbh. i had to look him up. but i remember that scene super vividly because of how lovely his voice sounded. it had a nice bard-like quality. ed sheeran was singing with jazzy dips in his voice so i think that was part of it too. 

and i had no idea the sub felt that way! i thought it would be books first, show second. i've definitely seen some critiques on here. regardless, i feel bad the guy felt he needed to erase his twitter. i certainly am not THAT upset about the whole thing! My Jeff's red is a relatively darker shade compared to Ed. But they have similar faces, particularly noses. He was giving me a hard time at a wedding last summer because I did not have a date. Off the cuff, I told him that he looked like an ugly Ed Sheeran that was pretending to be a waiter (bc he was wearing black trousers, a black dress shirt, and a pink tie with no blazer or jacket). It was lovely. If anything it's an advertisement for GoT rather than Ed, what does Ed really have to gain from saying a few words in Game of Thrones. If people don't know who he is they're paying way more attention to the 3 more interesting actors there, also Maisie was apparently very excited to have him on set.I don't really see his appearance as advertisement, it's just a cameo. What probably happened was that he was a fan of the show and asked the producers if they had a minor role that needed to be filled, or that he simply showed up and auditioned and they gave him that role.Dude can't help it if you recognize him, he did a great job and didn't seem out of place.

Euron's ships however... Now THAT fucking shattered any suspension of disbelief I've ever had. Like holy shit what the fuck...I just thought he looked familiar. Didn't know it was Ed Sheeran until my uncle blurted it out while watching with me.Or if he was Stannis' long lost son, Prince Sheeran> That's like: Hey GRRM, I really like your books can you put my name in it? My name is Washington. Just having a minor character called Washington won't make much of a difference right?

Or if someone made a football bet with Martin and in turn he creates a character whose signal is that of your favorite football team that he has then killed by a figure representing Martin's favorite football team (whose name also comes from a player from said team.)They literally showed a huge close up of Daniel Craig in Game of Thrones

http://i.imgur.com/hy2l4dy.jpgI was like...why is Professor Slughorn in Westoros.  Really took me out of the movie.  /s

Oh shit I forgot about that! I remember being surprised and telling myself he must have been there before but I guess not.McShane is a good actor hired to play a role that warranted a good actor.  Thomas Turgoose is an unknown (outside of the UK) in a role befitting of his status in the industry. It had no idea who he was until someone mentioned it on here.
When Arya was approaching, and we couldn't even see Sheeran yet, I commented "that better not be Ed Sheeran". Sure enough, the extremely recognizable, non-actor, that has not business being in a little role in GoT, is making a cameo appearance. That to me is what makes a cameoThe fact and problem is that it *was* him. yea if it wasn't fucking Ed Sheeran dropping that line i wouldn't have cared OBVIOUSLY, but it was and it was cringe-worthy and awkward coming from a current pop-star's mouth during a fantasy show on HBO. Well then it would have removed the reason it was awkward and kind of ham fisted... I actually like Ed Sheeren lol. The issue is that the cameo and the visual language of the scene made his cameo extremely distracting such as the many close ups of Ed Sheeren sing, him singing as the lead in for the scene and the "its a new one" line was a cheesy wink wink even though it had narrative justifications for it. Other cameos were subtle and sigur ros that also played music was actually appropriate in the Purple Wedding.I've actually seen more valid complaints at the other thrones sub than this one, the supposed "intelligent" discussion sub. This cameo was terrible due to the shots associated with it. Random guy singing > Lannister group > Ed Sheeran's face taking up the entirety of the screen and nearly winking at the camera. [deleted]IIRC the song was from the book.Most of those 20 seconds he was off-screen, and his singing was important for the scene because it's the reason Arya even talks to them. How famous he's doesn't matter, it was still a cameo and when the actual scene started he stayed silent and the professional actors carried the scene. There is certainly no reason to hate on the guy like a lot of people are doingThat's always welcome.  I just think a lot of people are tired of people screaming "BAD WRITING" over stuff that has very little to do with writing (like the Arya chase scene last season) or acting like the characters have no flaws and should therefore make the best decision possible at every single point.  That would make for a boring, conflict-devoid story.  

What didn't you like about it?  I can see complaints about the pacing.  We can only have so many cold opens before they feel stale (especially when they're preceded by a two minute long HBO ad).  The dialogue is serviceable for the most part, but the bad lines really shine through in the worst way possible.

What about the episode didn't you like?No, that's not it, you're just trying to rationalise the fact that other people have different opinions than you do. 

I love the show, but I'm not going to act like it's the most perfect thing ever. It has flaws, and because I am invested in the show, I want to acknowledge and discuss those flaws, just like I discuss it's good points. That's what this sub is for: *discussion*.

I am absolutely sick of people in this sub insulting anyone who dares criticise the show. The fact that you didn't mind Ed Sheeran's cameo and others did doesn't make you smarter, it doesn't mean they're idiots who can't think for themselves, it just means people have different subjective opinions. I thought he looked like David Bowie. Once I saw his outfit and thought that, I couldn't see him as anyone else for the entirety of his scene.Its very simple. Execution. If it worked for you, fine. But for me it was annoying because Ed Sheeren was the one singing it. I recognize his voice and when its Ed Sheeren singing it, it becomes a bit if a joke. 

If it was a normal actor with the same lines signing that song, it definitely wouldnt have bothered me. So that's where I knew him from!Oh, cool. He looked important somehow, although I couldn't place him. ... I just Googled Bill and found out that Pete died in 2011 :( I wondered why he hadn't been in anything recent No shit? Wow, now that you say that I can totally see the resemblance.

On a related note, before Jonathan Pryce was cast as the High Sparrow, I always imagined him as Pete Postlethwaite.It's a shame Pete wasn't alive to be in this show. He could've made a great Qhorin Halfhand.I have been calling him Kylo Ren.It's not that I don't understand why people might not like it, it's that I don't understand the extent to which they dislike it. If you don't like his cameo, it really was such a small factor. Why make such a big deal?Blueberry wine kid got a dialouge with Arya.  Deffinitly was the centerpiece of the scene.  A little romantic tension with Arya.  Maybe not romantic per se, but she realised this kid is Basiclly Hotpie.

  I dont understand the hate this scene is getting.  There was so much exposition on Aryas character.  So much internal conflict and tension that the other characters cant sense.  I think it was fantastic and a really great way to bring everyone up to speed on Arya's character development.> Boys always spoken about disconnecting from social media.

According to EW.com (http://ew.com/tv/2017/07/18/ed-sheeran-deletes-twitter-game-of-thrones/amp/), Sheeran stepped away from twitter some weeks ago, but the account deletion happened since Sunday night's episode.oh, my bad. yeah i actually liked the scene. not only cause of ed but because it made the lannister soldiers feel more human. and im a big fan of edd so that probably helpedOkay, well, that's not quite what you said in your original comment! I do see your point, however.Impossible to say whether or not anybody else heard it and repeated it before Bronn killed him. All it takes is one person.And yet nobody is complaining that professor Slughorn is now an archmaester. What's the difference?  Or did that ruin the whole citadel plot for you?if you watched Misfits, Ramsay's character stood out as the social awkward kid who was actually a hero. Hell Missandei and Catelyn were from the same show. And then you have Gendry and Gilly who were both on the first 2 seasons of skins, a massively popular show. In this episode alone, you had Filch and Slughorn from Harry Potter. People just get up in their feelings and like hating on dudes like Ed Sheeran because "mah good music" aka the most subjective thing in the world. Whose fault is that though? Why complain?

No matter the actor or musician there are millions who have never heard of them.

You can't be concerned your actor takes away from the scene unless he can't act.You don't know who he is, so that completely invalidates the argument of people who do know who he is? Come on man..."I didn't know who it was, therefore only whiners are complaining about one of the worlds most popular musicians as being recognizable"Is it crazy that people found it a bit immersion breaking though? Not everyone is saying he ruined the whole episode, just "hey I didn't really like this". Again, imagine Trump or Kim Kardashian showing up, that make seem odd to some peopleHe is a wildly popular pop star in the UK.

It would be like if Britney Spears showed up as an innkeep, or if Donald Trump was chilling in the background as some commander.

You'd just be doing, wait, the fuck, that can't really be them, right? for the first few moments.SameI'm in the same boat. When his scene came in, I was wondering why the camera was lingering on this redheaded soldier. Is Arya going to kill him? Will he be an important figure in the rest of the season? Come to reddit afterwards and realize he's just a super popular singer cameoThis. Honestly I don't know which of the Lannisters he was and I am too lazy to google. The scene had more important flaws. Why is nobody focusing on how forced and unbelievable the "Those are good guys" narrative was?But why does it have to be either "hating" or "being fine with it"? To me it felt forced and annoying, didn't ruin the scene for me as much as the soldiers being so over the top nice. He's not the 1st non-actor to appear in GoT (also,he may be the 2nd singer?), Obama & Trump would be very weird in Game of Thrones lol. House of Cards is a different story though lol, atleast Ed looks like he belongs in that world lol.

If he took people out of it, I understand he did for me too but most cameos do just that. It doesn't necessarily make it a terrible though, I just think people love their submersion with this show. They even put it in a light-hearted scene in the premiere to not take people out of more meaningful moments.He's not the 1st non-actor to have a cameo in Game of Thrones, also if Obama & Trump had a cameo in Game of Thrones it would be very weird lol. House of Cards is a different story though lol, atleast Ed looks like he belongs in that world.He deleted his twitter because of GoT fans harassing him. That is the point of a cameo.  So do you just not like cameos at all?> i feel bad the guy felt he needed to erase his twitter.

I dont know much about ed sheeran but i know he hates social media, so its probably not the soke reason but the straw that broke the camels back. As for the people going after them, they're part of the twitter cesspool.Ugh Euron in the show mate...god fucking dammit what a disappointment. I know he's only had a few scenes and his first one on the bridge was pretty dope but he's SO fucking menacing and cool in the books!! Please do the character justice D&D :(I see what you did there. I like it.But if it doesn't feel hamfisted or awkward to someone who doesn't know/care about Ed, is it really hamfisted? Seriously the scene was fine, people are freaking out over nothing.

I'm a big fan of the band Mastodon, they've been in a few scenes in GOT already and I didn't find any of those hamfisted or awkward.The directing of this episode was pretty bad. A lot of scenes had terrible shot placement, and the blocking was really awkward and somewhat amateurish compared to what I'm used to on the supposed best TV show out there. ...yeah, I don't think anyone has a problem with Sigur Ros' part?  I only brought them up because they're the only other cameos that sang and thus the most comparable one we've hadIt is, but it (and its plot point) wasn't featured on the show.  So when he says "It's a new one" it can be seen as a song his character wrote, in-universe.I don't know why anyone would hate on him, it's not like he gets to choose what he does beyond something like "I think it would be cool to be a Lannister soldier."  But his is unquestionably the most prominent cameo the show has had to date.  His voice is far more recognizable than his face - not having anyone else on screen actually makes you notice his voice more.  None of the other musicians on the show have been featured like he was.  It shouldn't be a problem IMO (especially because he looks like he belongs in Westeros) but it's a little jarring - it's not something you can miss if you recognize him/his voice.  Uh, bad writing is exactly what made that chase scene bad.>"BAD WRITING" over stuff that has very little to do with writing (like the Arya chase scene last season)

That was BAD WRITING too. The script literally just said "there's a chase scene". Not only did they forget they had Arya's guts turned into mincemeat the previous episode (which precludes a chase), but they didn't bother giving the director anything to go on from a character, setting, plot, etc. standpoint. You know, the entire job of the writer.What I wrote is true in a more general sense. I don't mean just this show, but in general, no matter what the subject is, what I wrote is true. People like to hate. That's why there's always Youtube drama and shit and people jump on hate bandwagons, because they like seeing people fail.

Critical individuals are seen as thoughtful and smart, while positive and accepting people are seen as naive.:( I'm sorry for our loss than you just learned of. I always imagined him as the Septon Meribald that could have been, so clearly we have him pegged as a clergy man!

I blame Dragonheart. Oh wow he did pass away, didn't know that :(

He would've been awesome as Qhorin.HES DEAD?!I liked the scene, but that doesn't mean it wouldn't have been much better without Ed Sheeran and I think that's the majority of the complaints. As the OP of this comment thread said, "it's Ed Sheeran in Lannister armor". Meribald by Ian McShane at the very least had an actual character. It wasn't Ian McShane in Westeros. Fair enough, I indeed worded my comment poorly.

It's the emotions, man, I swears it!True, but it was being used by Symeon as a bargaining chip, and it was really only useful if no one knew about it. Not to mention the other musicians who appeared in the show. Sigur Ros sang at Joffreys wedding, and i didnt see people get upset about that. And they are objectively the best band in the world.Don't forget Mance, Edmure, and ‎Ellaria Sand all being in Hbo's Rome, or as I like to call it "Game of Rome" Heh.But most of these characters are characters. Ed was an extra. So I can look past the actor and see the character, but with Ed I have no identity to attach it to and his own shines through.For real.

I like OPs example.  So I will re-use it.

If it was RDJ in that scene, you would go "huh thats RDJ" and move on.  Thats all anyone should have done.  People being upset of a cameo is more than a little ridiculious.  We have had cameos before.In my opinion the show was ruined in season one. I kept thinking, "hey, that's Sean Bean. Doesn't he have a ring to steal?  What's he doing in Westeros?"  It totally broke the immersion of the story. I don't know why the casting directors keep insisting on using recognizable people in the show. Those are not even remotely compareable.

Seriously.

Also, Britney Spears as a tavern wench would be ok.

> Donald Trump was chilling in the background as some commander.

I get your point, probably a bad example though.  

And I've watched shows with cameos of people I do recognize.  It doesn't bother me so long as their actual performance does not take away from the show (and I don't feel Sheeran's did).I figured he was going to be the last one to die, begging for his life when Arya kills them all as we watch her go from Frey murdering badass to dehumanized monster in her quest for vengeance. He wasn't a Lannister. He was just one of the soldiers fighting for the crown. Good men in service to a bad cause. It's important to help show that Arya isn't completely gone over to killing and vengeance. She still has some of that humanity left in her. Oooh these Lannister soldiers aren't horrible murdering rapists? Shitty writting amairite?Forced? It was a breath of fresh air to be honest. Do you want Arya to cut down every other group of strangers she sees?Why is it unbelievable that there's a group of decent people on the road? that's what I feel, yea there's some people going too far in the bitching about it but most of it that I've seen on Reddit is just people saying they didn't like it. 

It was presented as a gift to Maisie Williams, who after almost 7 years has given us an incredible portrayal of Arya, and I consider her one of the best parts of the series. After everything I feel like that sort of thing is deserved, and complaining about it feels forced and annoying. Do you mean he just moved over to IG? Because I just pulled his Twitter up.

Game of Thrones doesn't need those headlines at this point though. They were already going to break records with the premier whether Ed Sheeran briefly appeared in it or not.Not if they're hamfisted in with an awkward execution. Y'know, the argument that was made in the first place...I mean I didn't freak out but I thought the scene was... Weird. It was clearly a wink and a nod. It felt a little awkward in an otherwise amazing scene. The scene would have been better if the lines weren't so kind of 4th wall breaking, but it was still a good scene despite it and not because of it.Why don't you give examples? They did nothing but praise the cinematography in profesional reviews of this episode.Disagree completely, literally just the random shot of Sheeran was off. The overview of Cersei and Jaimie on the map? The opening scene watching 50 Freys  choke on their own blood? All of Dragonstone? The final shot: "Let's begin"? I thought it was a very well shot episode. Captured emotions well and provided some subtle hints towards the future. [deleted]In the show universe Bronn wrote the song and taught it the Lannister boys during their time at Riverrun. 

Is that a plausible enough explanation for you?I wouldn't call myself a fan, but I listen to his album in my car almost every day. I was still surprised to see him - even though I had heard  before that he would be in this season.I can understand that, personally I'm not a fan so I'm not that familiar with his voice, maybe that's why his presence wasn't jarring for me, I knew who he was but that's it. But a lot of people are reacting like he started rapping in the middle of the scene, it makes no senseBecause it shouldn't have happened, especially not in the way it did. She was injured. What are you talking about?  The character, setting, or the plot wasn't what was bad with the scene.  It was over the top in a flashy, "epic" way.  It reminded many people of Terminator 2, for good reason.  That's all in the cinematography, the direction, and the editing.

From a writing perspective, it's a perfectly fine way of getting Arya home.  I'm not saying it's spectacular, but for Arya to come home *as* Arya, she can't become a Faceless Man.  The conflict of maintaining her Stark identity and becoming strong enough to inflict her revenge is the crux of her storyline, both in the show and the books.  She can't truly become a Faceless Man without abandoning her "Starkhood," but her desire to become an assassin stems from her desire for revenge.  Eventually this conflict has to come to a head.  Having Arya show mercy on a victim in order to kickstart this conflict makes sense.  

That (and the dialogue) comprises the writing part of this process.  Film is a collaborative effort.  Not everything is up to the writers.  Of course the writers have input, not trying to say they aren't involved, but the director tells the actors what to do, the cameramen where to shoot, and (generally) has a larger say in the set and location of the shots.  That and the editing are what made that scene seem so... overdramatic.

I can see how people's suspension of disbelief might be messed with given her recent injury, but that's the only complaint I can see about the writing.Definitely thought of him as Meribald before, too! He was such a fantastic actor. And, yes! Dragonheart!Sorry you had to find out like this, I guess.Ian McShane is a professional actor.  He may be a famous professional actor, but Game of Thrones is a famous show.  He was a minor character with many lines.  Ed Sheeran's character was both a very minor character with like 2 lines and a cameo appearance by someone who isn't a professional actor.  Those are very different things.> Meribald by Ian McShane at the very least had an actual character. It wasn't Ian McShane in Westeros. 

He had a character in the sense that readers connected him to a character that exists in the book.  Similarly, if Martin had written a similar scene with Lannister soliders than Ed Sheeran would have been that actual character for readers.  I wouldn't also be surprised in the slightest that for the majority of the viewers that he was nothing more than Ian McShane in Westeros.  Yeah that's true. Perhaps he wrote it down and someone picked it up. Makes me remember how stupid he was though. Did he really think they were going to just let him go around singing that?> I can look past the actor and see the character, but with Ed I have no identity to attach it to and his own shines through

What made this a really bad cameo in my opinion is that there seemed to have been no attempt to make that guy a proper (background) character; no makeup, no hair stuff, nothing... they just put Ed Sheeran into Lannister armour.

The show-runners are quite notorious for wanting to show off they cast - to the point where the butchered Dorne plot in the show was specifically created by D&D (last minute) because they wanted to show off they had Indira Varma in the cast.

Ed's role fit in right with that. It felt very in-your-face, him being in the frame even when others were the focus certainly didn't help either. It felt to me that they really really wanted people to know "Hey guess what people, we got international pop superstar Ed Sheeran in our show! Look! Look everybody! Here, we even have him sing a little song for you. Out show is the hottest shit on TV right now!" 

I don't blame Ed Sheeran for the bad cameo, just like I don't blame Indira Varma for horrible TV-Dorne, his performance was ok. I blame the production for making this a "vanity cameo" that they must have known would throw off people.
He was Lannister Soldier #4 though, a true characterDepends on how you think about Cameos in general. I hate cameos. They are a cheap method to raise the attention of the viewers. Some guy in another thread complained that it's jarring simply because the dude isn't an actor. Seriously? Especially given that most of his lines he was singing."I knew that was Sigur Ros playing at Joffrey's wedding! Felt like I was in Iceland the whole time listening to Hoppipola instead of in Westeros enjoying a royal box social!" "Immersion ruined!".

Hilarious :)So you think no one should hire Sean Bean anymore just because he is famous? Or no famous actor should appear in shows? Are movies still ok? You know that acting is their job? I can understand that it is always weird to see an actor you know for a special movie to see in an other one. But thats just what beeing an actor is about. I used "Lannister" as "an affiliate of House Lannister".

And what they wanted to do is understandable and important, it just felt a bit too much on the nose to me.Exactly. In Westeros pretty much anyone old enough to hold a sword would be conscripted. Imagine yourself being conscripted then ask yourself whether you'd turn into a bloodthirsty murdering evil caricature or just be a reluctant solider wanting to go home. Why wouldn't there be others like that? The scene was good.If it were up to me, she would even not have poisoned the Freys. The point is that for me the dialogue did not seem genuine. They were obviously selling how good they are. The whole scene I thought they were just acting and they will assault Arya the moment she drops her guard.Because their entire conversation revolves about how good they are, how they want to return to their families... I imagine soldiers exposed to the horrors of years-long brutal war talk differently, regardless of whether they are good people at heart or not.And I don't really care. Why should I? I'm not Maisie Williams. If this is about compensation, don't worry, she's paid enough. Ah ok.  We're looking at it two different ways.  You're looking at the quality of the two cameos, I was just saying Sheeran's is more prominent than OP was saying.  I was like what does Sigur Ros have to do with Ed Sheeran having a big cameo?  lolI mean it works for me (though ironically bronn is played by a singer too lol), just as plausible as a random soldier coming up with it - we already know bronn likes to sing.  That he wrote it in-show is just the impression I got from him saying "It's a new one" but obviously that statement is open to interpretation.I think you might be a fan. It's okay, these things happen.Yep, should add bad writing preceding that chase made it bad.>From a writing perspective, it's a perfectly fine way of getting Arya home.

What does that have to do with:

#
>"BAD WRITING" over stuff that has very little to do with writing (**like the Arya chase scene last season**)

We're talking specifically about the Arya chase scene, remember? Not the entire Arya arc.

Not giving the director anything to go on for that scene is bad writing. "And then there's a chase scene" is bad writing.

>I can see how people's suspension of disbelief might be messed with

They failed at executing the most basic part of fantasy storytelling. Especially heinous considering they're also the showrunners and producers.

Edit: If you think "director, invent a chase scene" is them meeting their responsibility as writers then we'll have to agree to disagree.This basically. I don't think Ed Sheeran was put into the show because he was the right man for the role.

It didn't bother me massively and I'm not outraged by it but it was a pointless addition to the show.I am not sure about the conscription, in real life Middle Ages it was not usual for all peasants to be "conscripted" in the modern sense of the word I think. Swordsmanship requires training and many of the soldiers in medieval times were somehow bound to the lords, either being their standing retinue, household guard or being paid for military service.

Also I doubt anyone of us can *really* imagine what war is like. In a battle I would probably either be a bloodthirsty murderer or dead. I would suffer from PTSD, dehumanisation of violence, hunger and harsh conditions in general. War changes people. It is really hard for me to imagine, but most soldiers had very soon lost all barriers when it comes to stealing, and most of them were pillaging and raping after a battle. Even fathers of families. I think I can say I would not become Gregor Clegane, but I do not dare to claim I would stay an archetype of a moral good guy as those pictured.Remember the northerners Brienne kills? Just because you're on the good side doesn't make you a good guy, same with the other way around.We don't know what happened on set, why are you assuming that's the extent of their involvement?  Besides, knowing how the Director feels about this scene, I wouldn't be surprised if the director would have loved if they did that.  You could criticize them as producers for choosing that director, but again, it has nothing to do with the writing.>why are you assuming that's the extent of their involvement?

That's the extent of their involvement as **writers**. That's the "scene" they wrote. Everything else that made it to screen was invented post delivery of the **script**. You're trying to move the goalposts, but the **writing** will always be bad. The ink is dry.The show needs a good plague.. Maybe some cleansing Wildfire. Let Cersei save the day for once. :PSer Jorah gets some dragonglass powder mixed in with the rum from the pub in the island on the honeywine and stops his hand from turning to stone, heads to Dragonstone, meets Red Mel  and acquires Volcano Arm, heads to the Wall to take the black and fight the mfing Others :)I think there's definitely significance to Jorah's contracting the disease. Dave and Dan chose to composite Jon Connington into Jorah's character on the show and give him grayscale for a reason. They wouldn't have spent so much on that plot point without a significant payoff. What the actual payoff will be, I haven't a clue.

Even in the books, numerous characters have the disease but its significance isn't apparent until it's shown that Connington has the disease, and that there's a time limit on his ability to help Aegon. George seems to have plans for it as well.I need Jorah to survive and meet Jon to prove that Longclaw is actually Blackfyre.... so I'm glad he's still hanging in there.There is a theory that ingesting ground up dragon glass cures grey scale.  Someone zoomed in on the book that Sam was reading and it showed mention of ingesting dragon glass and grey scale pretty close together.Since Jorah is there, I'm guessing he will have a role in the show. No point wasting screen-time and money on him, if he is just going to rot in that cell. D&D could have simply ignored him for the final two seasons, and we would have been left with a realistic loose end. So fans could come up with theories that he failed and went to Valyria, he died, he was murdered, etc etc.

No frame is put on the show by mistake, and we saw parts of the text that we were supposed to see. So, my opinion is that his greyscale will be stalled or healed, and he will join the Great War (probably meeting Daenerys and Lyanna Mormont along the way). He will gain and lose some abilities, along the way.
There's a lot of Freys, even they can't keep track. There were two weeks between the feast that Jaime went to and that opening. She probably killed Walder anywhere between a few days to a week after Jaime's departure and then sent out the invites to all the other major members of House Frey, not already living at The Twins for the feast. My guess is that the cold open scene happened at around the same time that Jaime got back to Kings Landing in the Season 6 finale, which would explain why him and Cersei knew all about it in the new episode."I sent them to Kings Landing to bend the knee before Queen Cersei."

Or "Those no good sons of mine decided to go hunting."

There's literally millions of ways to explain away their disappearance, and it's more unlikely that anyone would notice IMHO. Folks hunt, skip dinner, etc. pretty regularly, so "Where's Walder?" likely doesn't come up too much. 
yes, in the book this song was written by symon and it was about tyrion/shae, because symon want to use it to threaten tyrion, either find a way to let him participate in the tournament of singers that will be held at the wedding feast, or he will inform cersei and tywin about shae. But more than that, this song even foreshadowed shae's death later. The lyrics "for hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm" fits the way tyrion killed her. He strangles her to death with tywin's chain,  the necklace of linked golden hands.

the song may serves the same purpose in the show too, u know, beside as a nod to book readers. Who wrote it isnt the matter. it's here to forshadow someone's death. Jaime has a golden hand now. thats what i thinkMaybe the song is about Jaime in the show and the soldier just made it up? The song only ever really worked in Symons version before Jaime got a literal gold hand and Tyrion stopped being Hand, after that nobody would connect it to Tyrion anymore. Don't forget Tyrion basically tells Bronn, its cool if Symon ends up in a bowl of brown.  Tyrion is so much more dynamic in the books, he's been totally whitewashed."I'm going to blackmail this important guy. I'm going to tell someone else the secret so if he threatens me, I can use that as leverage."

"Oh, no need to use this threat, he just said he'll look into it. I bet I have the upper hand! Yay!"

*is murdered before he can use that knowledge*

This is a weird thing to nitpick.Because Ed Sheeran is also a greenseer.The show and the book are different stories with different canon.This is exactly why I was so psyched to hear this song. For, me, the fact that the Symon Silver Tongue plot line never occurred in the show changes the entire meaning of the song. It is no longer about Tyrion and Shae, it's about Jaime and Cersei. The line about his "shame and bliss" now refers to their incestuous relationship. The "hands of gold" no longer refer to the necklace of the King's Hand, but Jaime's gold hand. The songs in the show have always foreshadowed important events, especially for the Lannisters. The Bear and the Maiden Fair was used to set up the bear vs. Brienne fight, which was an important moment for Jaime's character. The Rains of Castamere set up the Red and even the Purple Wedding. In the book, Hands of Gold was used to foreshadow and symbolize Shae's death at Tyrion's hands. The fact that this song is now being attributed to Jaime and Cersei fits in nicely with various Queenslayer theories. It's still the song of a Lannister man, who slowly turns on the woman he once did terrible things to protect, and the cold death she will suffer at his gold hand(s) when he finally realizes she wasn't the person he thought. GRRM has recently talked about characters who basically exist to foreshadow very important plot points (Beric Dondarrion), and I believe Shae has always been the foreshadowing of all this.Point in time A:  Symon writes song

Point in time B:  Symon plays song for Tyrion

Point in time C:  Bronn kills Symon 

We know that C came right after B, but we don't know when A occurred.  It could be that Simon wrote the song from scratch and hatched a blackmail plot all within seconds before seeing Tyrion in the wine sink.  Or it could be that he'd been writing and practicing it for awhile during which others may have heard it.


Edit: formatIt's an easter egg for the readers I think. We don't see this song or Symon Silver Tongue in the show, so in the show universe someone heard the story and wrote a song about it and it got somewhat famousWhile Symon Silver Tongue says that the song is new when he sings it to Tyrion, he certainly could have performed it to other people before he met with Tyrion. What's what I'm telling myself...you guys found ways to complain about everything! can't we just enjoy the nod to the books?also I feel like the song was just out of place here. In the books it's a very morbid and grim song because it reminds Tyrion of strangling Shae with the necklace of golden hands, yet they use it in the show to be cheerful and pleasantThe reason why only Tyrion knew the song in the books is because as you said, Tyrion had him killed in the hopes of keeping his affair a secret.  This was never depicted on the show as having happened, so I guess it's safe to say it didn't. 

Something worth mentioning is that Tyrion's effort to keep it a secret didn't work out in either the show or the books.  Shae testified in both mediums at his trial for murdering Joffrey, which means that Symon Silvertongue or whoever wrote it on the show didn't need to have Shae's confidence to know a version of the story, much like how there's a play in Braavos depicting Joffrey's reign.

Tyrion ended up regretting murdering Symon in Dance iirc because of this, and it's not as if it changes anything major either way.

Edit: Something else worth mentioning is the difference between Shae of the books and Shae of the show.  GRRM has said that his Shae is less pure of heart and purpose.  I always felt as if she never betrayed him until his fate was sealed and it was on her to ensure that her fate was no longer entwined with her own.  Either way, she was complicit in the crafting of Symon's song by telling her tale.  She may well have also been less than naive in the ammunition she was giving to Symon and was in some way rewarded by him or otherwise promised to get some sort of reward in the future.  

Regardless, her being less than devoted to Tyrion and otherwise unsatisfied with his company alone led to Symon's crafting of the song, which is drastically different from how Shae was portrayed in the show, where she doesn't betray him until she's caught by Cersei and Tywin and has no means of escape or survival without doing exactly what they want.That's in the books. This is the show... in the show the song was, perhaps, written by someone after rumours about Tyrion/Tywin/Shae spread. Yeah. I was thinking the same too. Though I was a bit disappointed that it didn't sound more like Ryan Yeunk's on YouTube. It's my favorite version of the song. 
https://youtu.be/GzubIa7Gry0
Or.    https://youtu.be/IIJAzM9GzBgI don't think Arya would know it...I wrote a post about this the other day. I think maybe there's more foreshadowing or it's just a nod to book readersMy nitpick had nothing to do with the logistics of Symon's plan. Read again.Hmmm with that in mind, he is the spitting image of Benjen, Daario, Euron, and Moon Boy.Yes, exactly.  And its inclusion in the scene in S7E1 even makes thematic sense.  This entire scene was Arya discovering that Lannister soldiers do not equal Lannisters.  She *stumbled across a gathering of Lannister men making fun of Jaime and Cersei.*  

She even says something about not knowing the song, and he replies that it's a new song.  I had the impression he'd just written it, and the men were sitting around, shooting the shit about how much they hated their bosses, mocking Jaime and Cersei, when she interrupted.  Their great mood was the universal great mood of workers bonding by taking the piss out of the CEO of the company they work for...and it played beautifully into Arya's dawning realization that not every soldier is a representative of the house whose armor he wears, and not everyone in their service deserves to be held accountable for what the high lords do.  On her way to murder Cersei (and possibly Jaime?), she ran into a group of Lannister soldiers bonding over how much they hate Cersei and Jaime, one of them sharing a song making fun of the Lannisters.  They dialed it back a bit on account of the strange girl's presence, but that's what was gong on when she found them.The song has always been about Jaime and Cersei, I've been saying it for years. GRRM loves his song and all of them are important in the story. Yes, it first points at Tyrion, but it has so much more in common with Jaime and Cersei. Everything points towards Cersei strangled by Jaime. I feel that this is a fair point. DAE hate Ned Shireen?To be fair, most of the songs in GoT / ASOIAF are pretty damn grim. You've got the Bear and the Maiden Fair - a song about rape. The Dornishman's Wife - also maybe about rape, at least about being murdered for adultery. The Reynes of Castamere - glorifies the slaughter of an entire castle full of people because a lord rebelled.

And yet all three are used in cheerful situations, with the exception of RoC which is used in both happy and mournful situations. So I don't think it's totally out of place for this new song to be considered cheery even though it's pretty messed up.A friend of mine believes that scene was meant to show the waning power/influence of the Lannisters. Tywin made it a point to rule by fear, and here's a group of young Lannister soldiers having a good time singing about an event that brought further disgrace to the family. Then they all laugh at a girl who says she's going to King's Landing to kill the queen. It could be argued that they took it as a joke, which they clearly did, but I feel like Lannister soldiers wouldn't have taken kindly to that during Tywin's reign.I like your explanation best. However, I don't believe Tyrion came to regret Symon's murder. In Dance, he talks to someone about bowls of brown and refers to the food as "singer stew".At first I was like well who the hell wrote it if the singer wasn't around but I decided that someone in the show version would have been able to based off of Tyrion's trial. Mostly just bothered that the melody was way different than I had in my head/via Dotrice. Yeah,  unfortunately just another difference. Like Berric Dondarion still being around at all.In general, his renditions tend to be very good. Shame he hasn't done the Bear and the Maiden Fair.Well played haha.It's a "nod" to the book readers in the same vein as Sandor digging the grave in the same episode, or Tyrion's line "it isn't the Rhoyne" from last season.

"Hey, remember that part you liked from the book? Well you aren't going to get it, but here's some salt to rub in that wound!"Your nitpick has everything to do with the logistics of the plan. Read again.Yeah, that's a very good point. Honestly I think everyone was so worried about bashing the cameo that they didn't treat the scene with the same kind of scrutiny we treat everything else in Thrones. I loved the scene and I loved the way the cameo played. I was honestly amazed with the way that they managed to keep the human element while setting the board for this season. I loved this first episode!RIP Ned and ShireenWell the content of the songs is grim, but they're basically used as cheerful songs. Hands of gold is basically the opposite, it's not written to be a particularly grim song, but in the books it's connected to a rather dark event, so it always has an ominous tone when Tyrion thinks of itI reread this part the other day, and he actually regrets killing him as a joke during Joff's wedding, when he realizes Symeon was telling the truth about the poor performances of the other singers at the singing contest and would have made a less boring singer.Well he is in a drunken delirium and is sort of reveling in his past actions, especially that of killing his father.

I believe there is a passage in Dance or maybe it was Storm where he lamented killing him because it was a catchy tune.  There were more verses than what we heard in the show or read in the books, and in the books they are lost from the collective memory.They're just easter eggs. If it actually bothers you then you're being way too precious about the books.Yeah I picked up this nod - and was not that frustrated by it in the least.  Most of the things the show tends to do drive me nuts, but this was one where it felt natural and fine.  I have an agreement with my wife that I won't be "that guy" when we watch the show and constantly talk about the books. It was really hard to keep my mouth shut during the grave digger scene.Yeah I guess it can just be chalked up as a nod to the readers. I brought this point up to a friend his reply was "I guess Ed Sheeran read the books." I LOLed.Solid counter... My point was that the song couldn't have been known by this random soldier since Tyrion had the singer dispatched before he ever got the chance to play it for people. This has nothing to do with how much sense there was to Symon's plan. You're correct about me nitpicking, but wrong about what I was nitpicking. Most of the other commentor's provided theories on how the song could have reached other ears, or simply pointed out that the creation and/or meaning of the song may be different in the show. You missed the point entirely.He lamented killing him before learning the rest in Storm. Yes he was drunk for much of Dance but he's a sober member of the Second Sons when he brags about Singer's Stew to Kem.> My point was that the song couldn't have been known by this random soldier since Tyrion had the singer dispatched before he ever got the chance to play it for people.

And I came up with a way that this piece wouldn't be true that was quite plausible. It wasn't hard to come up with.

>This has nothing to do with how much sense there was to Symon's plan.

This is true. It's also not something I ever refuted, but for some reason you think I have.

>You're correct about me nitpicking, but wrong about what I was nitpicking.

>*This* is a weird thing to nitpick.

I'm guessing a misinterpretation of what "This" refers to is the culprit here.And now a descendant of Aegon appears, once more with three dragons, to bring together these squabbling kingdoms as one. Only this time, there's a zombie army coming from the North so the stakes are a bit higher. Not really. The Reach and Dorne are allied with Dany (the Aegon stand in) the north and the Vale are allied and the iron throne has the West, the river lands(they're stuck between the west the storm lands and the crownlands), the stormlands, the iron islands and the crownlands Hand: Tywin Lannister
Law: Stannis Baratheon
Ships: Victarion Greyjoy
Coin: Petyr Baelish
Whispers: Lord Varys
Maester: Aemon Targaryen
Kingsguardcommander: Sir Arthur Dayne

Tywin was a great Hand to Aerys, does what has to be done.
Law to Stannis as he is perfect for it, he knows what punishment someone deserves and does that (like cutting Davos fingers).
Ships have to go to the Greyjoys and I prefer Victarion over the others.
Coin for Littlefinger as he always finds a way to get the needed money. But with Tywin and Stannis in the council he can't take it for himself and intrigue.
Whispers Varys is obvious.
Maester Aemon as he has most experience and once declined the throne to serve, so he can serve for the throne.
Arthur Dayne is obvious too.Ships: GendryHand: Tyrion Lannister. 

Laws: Eddard Stark.

Ships: Stannis Baratheon

Coin: Garth the Gross

Whispers: Maester Qyburn

Archmaester: Aemon Hand: Mance Rayder Laws: Beric Dondarrion Ships: Asha Greyjoy Coin: Ilyrio Mopatis Whispers: Arya Stark Grand Maester: MarwynAn adult Bran Stark as Master of Whisperers. But I'm pretty sure that's cheating.My All-Loser Small Council 

Hand: Shitmouth

Master of Ships: Khal Pono

Master of Whispers: Symon Silver Tongue 

Master of Coin: Brown Ben Plumm 

Master of Laws; Shagga

Grand Maester: Pate (like the pig boy)Hand of the King: Tyrion Lannister

Master of Laws: Ned Stark

Master of Ships: Asha Greyjoy

Master of Coin: Baelor Hightower

Master of Whisperers: Lord Varys

Grand Maester: Aemon Targaryen

Lord Commander of the Kingsguard: Arthur DayneKing: Me of course

Hand: Jaehaerys *the Conciliator* Targaryen, Prince of Dragonstone

Master of Laws: Benedict I Justman, Lord of the Riverlands

Master of Coin: Tyrion Lannister, Lord of Casterly Rock and the Westerlands

Master of War: Stannis Baratheon, Lord of Storm's End and the Stormlands

Master of Whispers: Doran Martell, Prince of Dorne and Lord of Sunspear

Master of Ships: Quellon Greyjoy, Lord Reaper of Pyke and Lord of the Iron Isles

Councillor without specific areas: Leo *Longthorn* Tyrell, Lord of Highgarden and the Reach

Grandmaester: Marywn *the Mage*

Lord Commander of the Kingsguard: Daemon "Blackfyre* Waters



Hand of the King: Tyrion Lannister

Master of Laws: Ned Stark

Master of Ships: Stannis Baratheon

Master of Coin: Wyman Manderly

Master of Whisperers: Lord Varys

Grand Maester: Aemon Targaryen

Lord Commander of the Kingsguard: Barristan SelmyHand: Septon Barth


Master of Ships: Alyn Velaryon


Master of Whisperers: Bloodraven


Master of Coin: Tbd


Master of Laws: The Ned


Fingers crossed Grand Maester is Maester AemonAnd the King you ask... Ser Pounce!"Master of Laws; Shagga"

We're going to need more goats.> Maybe there'll be a dragon in a new role instead of a new dragon.

Ice dragon?George, please don't break my heart, at least give us the name of Doran's mother.

But I'm glad to hear that he's focusing on his prose more. It's really nice to be able to see how it has improved since book 1.Although I disagree with Bran not getting out of the weirwood at all, I really liked this part: 

> Elio: "I think Bran's epilogue vision will be the dream of spring."

It would make a great ending for the series.
IMO he's flat out bullshitting about the Princess of Dorne. She's *extremely* important, and [she's alive, living as Septa Scolera (a bastardization of her real name, Sarella—the Sand Snake Sarella is named after her grandmother).](https://asongoficeandtootles.wordpress.com/2016/03/28/mega-tinfoil-essay-pt-3-of-3-aeryss-lovers-die-septa-scolera-taena-marei-olenna-maegor-and-daario/)  (I have finished a new version of this theory that's cleaned up and IMO considerably stronger, but I haven't posted it.)

I think GRRM is bullshitting people on a fairly epic scale about a great many things.>Maybe there'll be some good news at Helsinki, but I couldn't say it.

Get HYPED...This was awesome; thanks!>- They wrote account of Nymeria's voyage from the Rhoyne to Dorne and GRRM asked them whether they wrote it or summarized stuff he had written. Linda thinks that George had something better written (Ed Note: It's unclear from my notes which version made it to TWOIAF)

[Clarification from their AMA two (almost three) years ago:](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/2kgfy7/spoilers_all_ama_with_authors_of_the_world_of_ice)


> Other times still, he dropped what we wrote and provided the "real" story, which was invariably better than what we ourselves came up with. As an example, we presented a very speculative, and brief, version of the history of the Rhoynar flight to Dorne. George wracked his brain and asked if we had drawn from something he told us, and we said no, it was all purely speculative rather than spinning out from some arcane tidbit he'd shared with fans. So, a few days later, we got a lengthy file containing his history of the Rhoynar which was very, very different than anything we could have imagined.  Questions about Fire and Blood: Will we get more stuff about pre-conquest history?>If he were to rewrite AGOT now, it would not be the same. He would focus on various aspects in different ways.

Leave that book in peace George. As much as I like AFFC and ADWD we don't need AGOT to be overly detailed like that. If they do another a world of ice and fire book, I would love a section dedicated to the kings guard.Wait regarding stuff like Jon Snow having a sad destiny, so do Elio and Linda know the ending? Or is that just their opinions? 

> Maybe there'll be a dragon in a new role instead of a new dragon.

hey /u/BryndenBFish was this a quote from him or a question of yours?

And of course, good job on the transcribe, thanks > Maybe there'll be a dragon in a new role instead of a new dragon.

This may be another indication to the wight dragon theory. That would be [amazing](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/0f/3a/8f/0f3a8f02046b440e32d97327b8b6bc1f.jpg).
 > If time travel is something in the story, I have faith that George will make it work.

D+D = T Confirmed!

I feel like this interview session suggests that *The Winds of Winter* is still down the road, and not to expect much in the way of news at Helsinki, but that cuts against my gut which wants to hear the greatest of news.> George's write-ups for TWOIAF ended in the regency of Aegon III

Ugh. I'm desperate for more information about Aegon III's regency era. So many characters, so many political players. Plots and intrigue galore. 

> Jon Snow will have a sad destiny. 

Sad destiny? This just makes me think even more that Jon's time as a POV is over. He's going to be resurrected, but we might never get another window into his soul post-death.

I think the main takeaways from this interview is the Worldcon suggestion. 

Thanks for the write-up, BFish. Don't really care for Elio or Linda's opinions, but the little tidbits about GRRM's writing process are good. Hope Helsinki will be memorable for the right reasons.Hi, Javi Marcos here.

I was in the conference and live posting the info on Twitter so let me clarify a few things.

The final version of Nymeria's travel that appears in TWOW was George's idea, of course. 

About Aegon VI and Blackfyres they stated that Blackfyres did not exist in AGOT and only occurred to George while writing the first Dunk and Egg tale/finishing ACOK. That is an interesting data for them when we talk about this topic. For example, in the Illyrio-Varys scene of AGOT, they both couldn't be proBlackfyre when it was written.

I was the one who asked about theories invented by them or known by them that could be confirmed in the show (like CotF creating the Others, a theory Linda explained me 2 years ago having dinner before I interviewed them later http://www.ivoox.com/pdhyf-entrevista-a-elio-garcia-linda-antonsson-audios-mp3_rf_4521269_1.html). They weren't really explicit but for example talked about time travels.

And being there, the tone in the famous sentence about TWOW and Worldcon is...interesting, at least.Thanks for the write up on this. Plan to watch it soon.

A few thoughts:

>George spends more time over his prose than he did previously. If he were to rewrite AGOT now, it would not be the same. He would focus on various aspects in different ways.

This is very interesting to me. No doubt George is combing over TWOW with white gloves as we speak, making it as perfect as he can. He alluded to a process like this in his recent interview with Time.

>Daenerys will show up in Westeros and be instrumental in the fight against the White Walkers, but I think there's a great risk that she'll become very dangerous as well. Linda wouldn't bet money that she'd be alive by the end of the series.

>Jon Snow will have a sad destiny.

These quotes have me sad because it is a perfect ending for both characters, though I will weep buckets.

>Elio feels like GoT isn't translating George's story right, and he didn't like the end of GoT. He isn't avoiding GoT because of spoilers.

Agree with another comment that this is confusing.> Elio tried to get GRRM to give him Doran/Oberyn's mother. George didn't see the point of talking about it.

I care about this way less than a lot of other people, but given the thousands of new details we got in the World Book, 99% of which are insignificant in a stand-alone context, it's hard to believe he doesn't have a name for her, especially given that she's been referenced in the series. Or that he would consider her that much less important than any number of random named people who died thousands of years before the story started and were only mentioned once in the World Book.

> Elio feels like GoT isn't translating George's story right, and he didn't like the end of GoT. He isn't avoiding GoT because of spoilers.

I found this a bit confusing. It makes it sound like E&L have access to the season 8 scripts. Does translation work start that early?

> George's write-ups for TWOIAF ended in the regency of Aegon III.

Just hook it to my veins!

> Linda thinks the Conquest of Dorne would make for a good show

Smash-cut to Linda six years from now complaining about how bad the Conquest of Dorne show is compared to their MUSH game.

> George spends more time over his prose than he did previously. If he were to rewrite AGOT now, it would not be the same. He would focus on various aspects in different ways.

The difference in Martin's prose, focus and ambition from the first three books to the fourth and fifth is pretty drastic. I'd be pretty fascinated to see what the first three would look like if they were re-written to match the latter books. Especially *Game* which feels so small in focus and scope compared to the subsequent novels. Not that this would ever happen.
>Elio and Linda's contract allows for a second edition of TWOIAF

Elio and Linda did impressive work with TWOIAF. On the actual structuring and release of lorebooks, something that bothers me at times is is how big fans will buy the first edition at release, then inevitably shell out for the updated version as well. It’s almost like buying an incomplete book at first, then paying full price later for the ‘complete’ copy. TWOIAF is worth it for the art alone, but in any case I’m glad that, instead of this…

>GRRM says he wants to do an edition called Fire and Blood

Because Fire and Blood sounds distinct from TWOIAF the way he’s talked about it. Two versions of the same lorebook with the earlier one less complete doesn’t sound great, but two separate lorebooks sounds grand indeed.

Could be interesting to play with a different structure for Fire and Blood too, given the meta-narrative of the Maester writing TWOIAF.

>Elio disagrees slightly with George about not featuring Robert's Rebellion citing that we know what happens with the War of the Roses.

I very much agree with Elio here.

>Linda felt like the adaptation became unfaithful in S02

I’d more or less agree, although in no way at all do I think “faithfulness to source material” is inherently a good or necessary thing for an adaptation. I found season 3 to be miles better than season 2, even though it diverted more in many ways.

>George spends more time over his prose than he did previously. If he were to rewrite AGOT now, it would not be the same. He would focus on various aspects in different ways.

Aieeeeeeee…I really prefer authors to leave their past works in the past. I can think of another “George” that infamously went back and ‘redid’ his earlier, very famous stories. Some artists/writers say you never finish a story/piece of art, just ‘abandon’ it, but in any case, one something is releases to the public, they form their own relationships with that work, and taking away that precise work and replacing it with an ‘updated’ version feels like a bad move to me. Part of the appeal of AGOT to me anyway are the fun little inconsistencies it has with the series, from some odd story points, to prose like *”Ser Alliser Thorne walked from the room so stiffly it looked as though he had a dagger up his butt.”*

Of course, that couldn’t happen with ASOIAF anyway because it would just be an 'updated version' and it’s a book and there’s so many copies physically and digitally, plus all I’m talking about now is a thought experiment extrapolating from a comment not even saying what I’m talking about. I was just spooked!>"George didn't want to reveal everything about Robert's Rebellion."

That's good, it seems we still have some things we must know about the rebellion. Let's hope George has some serious twists up his sleeve, i'm really looking forward to know more about the Tourney at Harrenhal, Ashara Dayne and the Daynes in general.>Jon Snow will have a sad destiny.

YOU'RE TEARING ME APART, LINDA :(Oh nice! It was confusing transcribing that part of it as they were both talking at the same time, and then they were onto the next question. So, basically, I need to write my own fan-fiction, send it to George and then get the real deal back from him.

GOOD TO KNOWProbably not. Martin has described it as a history of the Targaryen kings, implying that it starts with Aegon I. Although I wouldn't be surprised if we got a bit more context for the previous Lords of Dragonstone between the Doom and the Conquest. Martin gave us a very specific lineage for the in the World Book all the way from Aenar the Exile to Aegon the Conqueror, but literally no information about anyone beyond their names and who was the son of who. So there's definitely room for a bit of expansion there.Elio was just speaking in a hypothetical about how the prose for AGOT would be different if GRRM were writing it now and how the amount of time he spends on writing increased majorly between the time when he was writing AGOT and nowadays. He's not going to go back and rewrite the first 5 books. You and me both. There was some solid Kingsguard info in there (especially the names of the original seven), but I was pretty bummed that there was no dedicated sidebar.It's just their opinion. They don't ask GRRM about future events in the story.It's a transcription of what Elio said. I might have gotten a few words wrong, but I think it captures his meaning of him thinking there'll be no new dragons, but perhaps the existing dragons could come into new roles in TWOW/beyond.Yup, that or maybe Bran skinchanging into a dragon to do something important.Wasn't there an interview with the guy who makes the models of the dragons who said one has a significant change? This really seems like a big possibility.I don't think we have seen the last of Jon's POV yet. His character arc just isn't complete and I don't know of any POV character around there who knows him well enough to pick up the torch to finish it> Ugh. I'm desperate for more information about Aegon III's regency era. So many characters, so many political players. Plots and intrigue galore.

I feel you. Aegon III's Regency is by far the era of Targaryen history I'm most interested in. Based on the tip of the iceberg we got in the World Book and the fact that Martin wrote 150+ pages on that period alone, I would totally read a novel or even a trilogy about that period.While I'd be ecstatic if GRRM announced TWOW's completion at Worldcon 75, I'm content that GRRM's mood has been "upbeat/busy" of late on the notablog. One thing that /u/werthead pointed out recently was that even if GRRM won't announce the book in a few weeks, the happy/busy signals he's putting out *might* indicate he's making progress or perhaps even see light at the end of the tunnel. It's similar to what was seen towards the tail-end of his progress on ADWD.

That's good enough for me, but if GRRM vindicates my half-joking "TWOW will be announced at Worldcon" tinfoil, I will be insufferable.Last time they said some Sansa chapter will be seen as controversial. There was absolutely nothing controversial about chapter. Linda and Elio's options doesn't necessarily reflect fans opinions in general. > Don't really care for Elio or Linda's opinions

I only read them on and off over the years, but why do you say this? Just curious. I don't feel one way or another about them. > About Aegon VI and Blackfyres they stated that Blackfyres did not exist in AGOT and only occurred to George while writing the first Dunk and Egg tale/finishing ACOK. That is an interesting data for them when we talk about this topic. For example, in the Illyrio-Varys scene of AGOT, they both couldn't be proBlackfyre when it was written.

This changes EVERYTHING.> 
> 
> 
> 
> And being there, the tone in the famous sentence about TWOW and Worldcon is...interesting, at least.

Awesome! Would you elaborate?About the sentence of TWOW, you mean interesting in a good way right :) ?!?>About Aegon VI and Blackfyres they stated that Blackfyres did not exist in AGOT and only occurred to George while writing the first Dunk and Egg tale/finishing ACOK. That is an interesting data for them when we talk about this topic. For example, in the Illyrio-Varys scene of AGOT, they both couldn't be proBlackfyre when it was written.

That IS interesting.  Thanks!> 
>> Elio feels like GoT isn't translating George's story right, and he didn't like the end of GoT. He isn't avoiding GoT because of spoilers.

> I found this a bit confusing. It makes it sound like E&L have access to the season 8 scripts. Does translation work start that early?

I watched them regularly back then so maybe I can shed some light.

I don't think Elio is a Stannis fan, but that he really thought S5 sucked the life out of GRRM's vision for real because of the way they truncated storylines (we can look back now and see what he was talking about: Jon got Stannis' ADWD mojo in S6, and if you like 'em or not, they DO care more than the average bear about how *George* comes out looking in the show). [Here's his last video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PzmpxuDqt9A) reviewing the show, Mother's Mercy.

I found it sad because I think he liked the show MORE than Linda did by far until S5.

Linda pushed on into S6 because she's a translator, but *she was impressed* (**for Linda**) several times. Yes she trashed the show a lot, but "for Linda", parts of S6 may have been her favorites since S2.

Elio was THAT disappointed about Mother's Mercy though; it was his personal "can't get past this" line-in-the-sand. I think at one point he'd have punched George in the face for letting S5 happen.

I find it interesting because Elio was far kinder to the show than Linda and her eyerolls and spins until the Stannis/Shireen mid-S5 stuff started happening. THAT tells me Elio respects TF out of whatever he thinks GRRM's doing with the North in TWOW (though he's made it clear they're his opinions, not spoiler knowledge).Regarding the first part there, I agree.

George is a fan first and foremost. He's not just an author. So being a fan, how can he not understand people obsessing over details? Has he not done the same thing or at least been around people discussing Tolkien's stuff? I would find that hard to believe.

It's always struck me as odd that he brushes off questions about some characters we are curious about and yet he'll go into detail about others that are even less important.

Fans once questioned some of the continuity issues in Goodkind's Sword of Truth series and I think Goodkind responded with something like, "I'm a novelist, not a world builder" as a way to excuse why certain things didn't seem to carry over from one book to the next. That's what I think of when Martin is like, "their mother was some woman, most of them are." Hur hur hur.What the heck is a MUSH game?I don't recall the quote about Elio disliking GoT "ending" and not the show as a whole. But to be fair, they don't hate the show. They just don't like many changes and thing, (they stated directly in this event), that is not "George's son" but "George's cousin" that got a bit punk or something like that. Ah, I need to edit that part -- was writing too literally. Elio was referring to his disappointment at the end of S05. He's talking about adaptation of the source material (ASOIAF) to the show as opposed to literal translation. He does use the word "translation" in the video though, but he means "adaptation."[removed]Stupid question but who is the other George who went back and changed their works. I feel like this is going over my head.> Linda felt like the adaptation became unfaithful in S02

The doesn't justify the outburst in Twitter> I’d more or less agree, although in no way at all do I think “faithfulness to source material” is inherently a good or necessary thing for an adaptation. I found season 3 to be miles better than season 2, even though it diverted more in many ways.

Agreed. Different medium, constraints, opportunities, etc.Well, come on now, he is dead. For GRRM, that's probably not projecting a sunny destiny. :)Oh hi Mahk"Chosen Ones" tend to have such since ancient times. I will be kinda disappointed if GRRM only focuses on it.>He's not going to go back and rewrite the first 5 books

I understand that much. Btw thanks for sharing all this.I agree, I noticed myself how upbeat he's been in the last few weeks. Every blog post seems to indicate either a good mood or "busy". Maybe as you say he can finally see the light of the tunnel, or he's been particluarly inspired and has struck gold with something in the book. 

Heh. When is Worldcon? I'm not familiar with the datesYeah but his words were over exaggerated both by fans and by the author of the article where Elio was reported to have said that. He addressed this both on westeros.org forums and here on reddit.

He only thought the chapter would be controversial in *some* quarters of the fandom (namely the Sansan shippers, and I mean, I kind of get why he thought that because back in the day it was a much bigger deal than it is now, like half of all Sansa related discussions was about her relationship with the Hound).We haven't seen the controversial chapter yet, we only got her intro one.
Besides their constant complaining about every aspect of the show, Linda specifically has troublesome views on both women and minorities.I mean you can only expect so much from the biggest fanboy/girl in the worldSean T. Collins over at Boiled Leather (who is incidentally the only ASOIAF tumblr/blogger/internet personality I follow who actually likes the show) had a tweet today where he said "Sometimes I read a review of a show & wonder what it's like to watch the show being written about, as opposed to the one actually on the TV". 

That's pretty much how I feel when I read a lot of hardcore book fans reviews/complaints about the show. They've got a perfect version of the show that exists in their heads (one that diverges as little from the books as possible) and then they just deduct points for everything that's different or not how they imagined it, etc. I'm all for comparing adaptations to their source material, but some people are just way, way too close to it. And most of the complaints they have would likely evaporate if they'd never read the books or if the books didn't exist in the first place.

I read multiple reviews of Battle of the Bastards where people were complaining that the piles of bodies/the Northerners getting surrounded couldn't happen because of xyz military tactic, etc. When you're ignoring the genuine sense of hopelessness in that scene and the horror of Jon being almost buried under a pile of dead and dying men in favor of military tactics, you've reached a point where you're not interested in the show being made, you're just interested in the show you want to see. If these people had their way, the show would be nothing but people talking over maps and travelling from place to place, talking about how they're getting where they're going and how much time it would take.Yeah. I mean, he's the author, the aspects of the story that interest him matter more than the aspects of the story that interest us. But its such a small thing and, as you said, he's done way more world-building for less relevant aspects of the story. 

I dunno. I also think that people think that Martin is way more plugged into the ongoing concerns of the fanbase than he actually is. The Dead Ladies Club tumblr set is reasonably prominent in the fandom, but I don't know how much of that stuff makes it back to him, especially now that his audiences has grown much broader and more numerous with the show. I can see him thinking its just random pedantry and not really getting the reason that people are specifically focused on that one thing. I've got all kind of random bullshit I would ask him if I could, not much of it really has any social or political implications. I can imagine that it all just bleeds together into noise for him.It's a pen/paper roleplaying game that Elio and Linda run over on Westeros.org called ["Blood of Dragons."](http://www.westeros.org/BoD/) At present, it's set during the reign of Baelor the Blessed. It's [an online role-playing game that's been going on at Westeros.org for like 10 years](http://www.westeros.org/BoD/). It's set during and after the Conquest of Dorne. From the reviews I remember them doing a few years ago, Linda definitely seemed to hate the show. Elio seems pretty diplomatic about it. That being said, I haven't been keeping up with what they've been saying about it. 

As much as I myself like the books more than the show, I find the hardcore bookfan community becomes totally insufferable when the show rolls around. I don't plan on checking most of the ASOIAF blogs and tumblrs I follow for the next seven weeks.No, I got that he meant "adaptation" when he said "translation" in that quote, I was just confused by the "end of GoT" part. Thanks for the clarification.This comment was removed per [Rule 6](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules).Not stupid at all! I was talking about George Lucas, and his controversial Star Wars re-releases. A lot of people dislike how he changed effects and some story beats upon waves of home releases of the original Star Wars movies, especially because it's hard to get the "untouched" copies now they're not very available. I don't follow Linda's twitter and haven't heard about this, what was it about? In the words of GRRM himself - *the books are the books, the show is the show*!"You were supposed to destroy the Others, not join them! Bring balance to the seasons, not leave them in winter!"Harry Potter married a Ginger and lived happily ever after though :(Yeah that's pretty much mandatory for any epic fantasy.Worldcon will be 9-13 August 2017. GRRM meets with his editors on his way to Finland. After Worldcon, GRRM will go to a con in St. Petersburg, Russia and then back home by late August/Early September if memory serves.What are those views?Oh ok, I've missed all that. I don't entirely disagree about aspects of the show, but I definitely am out of the loop on the women/minorities views. I'm just a regular ol' series fan! Oh, thanks for the heads up about Sean T Collins! I hope he's on YT. I've read Boiled Leather and like him a lot too.

Elio gave 5x09 an 8/10 (and IIRC, that was a LOW for him, and I think it's because he fangirled so hard over Hardhome, like what could beat Hardhome). And Linda wasn't as impressed. That's why I liked their dynamic though: Elio was pure GoT fanboi and ASOIAF guru, whereas Linda was more just the latter. Made for fairly hilarious reviews with those dynamics.

And I respect Elio for drawing the line in the sand and being truthful about it; that kid was *into* GoT/TV... I felt him (but no way I was going to quit or anything; hell I'm looking for spoilers!)

**Surprisingly**, Linda JUST did a review of 7x01 ...**and she said it was GOOD.** I kid you not. She's not fangirling though (she still doesn't think Cersei is Cersei-enough, but she makes that clear). She gave it a better review than I did and clearly knows no show spoilers.

Anyway I think the bottom line is that if GRRM's giving it a thumbs up, it's a bit *weird* to not at least give the adaptation *a chance.* He's the freakin AUTHOR and seems excited about the first episode. Even the most pure-asoiafist needs to at least appreciate *that*. (I think. Unless they hate George or something.)Closer to 20 years.  It was around back when I started reading the books.  I am pretty sure I remember a sticky thread on the old EZ board.So, like a collective fanfiction?I suspect they have pretty much the same opinion regarding the show, it is just that, as you said, Elio is more careful with his words.You're welcome!

Also, it's a bit unclear but the Princess of Dorne piece was said around the time Elio was talking about how some things GRRM wasn't interested in and some things he was reserving for the novels. So, it might have more significance for the novels given that she was responsible for betrothing Elia of Dorne to Rhaegar. 

Still doesn't explain why GRRM would choose to leave her name out of TWOIAF, but :shrug:.She had a meltdown about D&D changing stuff and went on a rampage threatening to spoil plot points for people, stuff like that. 

Edit: [Here's a dailydot write up.](https://www.dailydot.com/parsec/linda-antonsson-game-of-thrones-shireen-spoilers/) Nothing too crazy, but you would expect more professional behavior from someone sort of officially connected to GRRM. Also, in a different twitter war she called people 'retarded cunts'.She was threatening to spoil things for show watchers because of how bad the show had gotten. She blocked me from twitter when I called her immature. 

Edit: In her opinion the show grew worse. Not mine. Damn, those Worldcon dates are when I'm away without internet access. No F5 keyboard-bashing for me...

btw, cheers for the public service BFish. I always enjoy scanning over these information-collection posts. They're always informative. It's been a really long time since I was involved in any of her drama so I can't recall too much specifically, but she's been in some very trashy twitter wars with people. I'm talking saying really nasty stuff like calling women who disagree with her 'retarded cunts' and things like that. Wrote some pretty shitty tumblr posts that more or less amounted to saying that people of color don't really belong in fantasy fandom. How overt her racism is will depend on how racist the individual reading the blog post is, probably plenty of readers who would agree with her 'book purity' logic. Like people who criticize people of color for cosplaying white characters, that sort of thing. I thought it was pretty shocking, really over the top rhetoric for someone that is sort of officially connected to the IP, but nothing any worse than what some politicians get away with. Internet culture war stuff mostly. The 'retarded cunt' statements were verbatim from her twitter though. 

I've heard that you get banned from this subreddit for discussing these controversies, so let's see what happens!> I hope he's on YT.

He's not, but he and another really smart dude (Stefan Sasse) have a podcast called All Leather Must Be Boiled that's defintiely worth a listen. They're up to like 60 episodes. They only really talk about the show and Star Wars now that there hasn't been any new material in a few years, but the old episodes are defintely worth going back to. They focus way more on character and theme, as opposed to most discussion, which focuses on plot.

I'm well beyond caring what Elio and Linda think about the show. Glad they're learning to enjoy it a bit though.

> Unless they hate George or something.

If you hang around enough threads about the lack of *Winds* updates you'd know that plenty of people on here definitely hate him. I've seen numerous people say that explicitly.Could be. I thought I saw something about them celebrating the 10th anniversary recently. Also, the game movies in real time and they're in 166 AC, so ten years would line up. The Conquest of Dorne starts in 157 AC.Kinda. It's a role playing game, so they're creating characters, interacting, there's a DM-equivalent making up the overarching plot and major events, etc.

The game started long enough ago that George had enough free time to give them family trees and general info about that era of Westeros for them to work with. Some of it has been superseded by stuff he reworked in the World Book, but some of it became canon. Not entirely. Think World of Warcraft but in text only. Way more expansive in some ways, horribly restricted in others. 

Source: enjoyed/wasted years of my college life in Achaea, Dreams of Divine Lands. (https://www.achaea.com/) > So, it might have more significance for the novels given that she was responsible for betrothing Elia of Dorne to Rhaegar.

Yeah, that alone makes it seem worth mentioning. He's mentioned less. Also, it's possible that she was Princess of Dorne during the War of the Ninepenny Kings, and you've got to assume Dorne was pivotal in that war given its proximity to the Stepstones.

 And at this point we know the names of the ruling parent of every person who was a Lord Paramount at the start of the novels except for the Tullys and the Martells. Just fill it out George!Well, that was certainly a mature and collected reaction /s

Honestly, that wasn't something to get so worked up over. Did anyone think it was likely D&D had made that plot point up? We all knew the show would pass the books, of course it was gonna spoil some things... If the incident with treating to spoil things for people is the one i'm thinking of she actually was criticizing D&D for spoiling Shirren burning when they said "George told us about it", because they always tell book readers not to spoil stuff for show watchers and for them to go out of their way to tell people that the burning was George's idea and it was something straight from the books was really a low blow. She was talking about how she tries to not spoil anything to show watchers and keep parts of westeros.org show friendly and when they D&D did this shit and she had to translate it she asked on twitter how would they feel if she started spoiling stuff on purpose for everyone. Again if it's the same incident, she can be a bit mental sometimes. Must've been hard for her to be called immature by you, JonnyActsImmature. Same name on twitter? There are other places you can read about it, although I have no idea if it is really banned here, nor do I have an opinion about that. But, and without taking sides, imho it is kind of sordid and depressing, so not a lot of fun to learn about. Just an fyi from one single fan, me. I sort of wished I'd stayed away from the info, I was happier not knowing how some issues are discussed among ASOIAF fans, doesn't always bring out the best in people. They did also imply that people that did not like Feast and Dance were bad readers...which was shocking...I will have to go back and take all my reading comprehension tests again to regain my mojo! lol

I don't follow twitter, I've seen some forum posts over the years and watched their vids on youtube, nothing to out of the ordinary in terms of liberalism there, but I've heard that about Linda, but based on youtube, eh, she seems fun and interesting, so I guess it depends where you get your information.IIRC, that's when Ran moved from the EZboard to the current board at westeros circa 2005, they started a new game and made an official location for it.168 AC

Not that it really matters.

Source: I'm a player on there. *waves*Haha no. She also called users retarded for saying similar things. That makes sense.What Valonqar prophecy? That was cut from the show.... all we got was the *"gold will be their crowns and gold will be their shrouds"* bit..... there is no valonqar on the show..... 

Having said that, I do think it'll be Jaime that kills Cercei. However, I think to get around the Mountain issue, Cercei will (begrudgingly) be forced to send him away somewhere (probably somewhere out of KL so that he can cross swords with the Hound somewhere up North)  and Jaime will strangle Cercei in his absence..... Cercei may even feel safe with Jaime around, being one of the reasons she sends the Mountain out on a quest in the first place. 

Anyway bottom line, no, I don't think Cleganebowl will happen in King's Landing. I'd rather it not happen at all personally but I appreciate I'm in the minority here and am fully anticipating the usual half-dozen "Get Hype" variations to land in my inbox imminently...... While I appreciate that it might not happen and "get hype" is a bit out of control, I'm curious why you specifically want it to *not* happen? It's one thing to not care but interesting that you'd be actively against the Hound confronting the Mountain.To be fair, it's more that I don't want it to happen in the books, I appreciate the show is a different kettle of fish and the bowl likely will happen in the show regardless of whether or not it takes place in the books, which I think I am okay with. 

For the books, I just don't see how it adds anything to either of the Clegane's story. Sandor is in a good place and (providing we accept he is...) living the life of a gravedigger on the quiet isle; he's found peace, and finally managed to embrace a non-violent life. It works as an ending for his story. 

Gregor on the other hand is for all intents and purposes no longer Gregor. He's a mindless Zombie killing machine. I don't need to see this guy receive "justice" from his younger brother, he's so much more of a monster and removed from what he once was, I just don't really consider him to be Gregor Clegane anymore. Plus, Gregor has already had a gruesome and horrible death once already, via the hands of Oberyn. Gregor was an absolute dick and deserved death (bonus points for it being horrible and gruesome), but I don't think I need to see this happen (effectively) twice. 

So that brings us to the bowl. Sandor donning a sword again I would see as a backwards step in his character development, he won't be embracing a new quiet and non-violent life, rather he'll be acting upon a decades old grudge, almost, rather selfishly, just so he can kill his dick of a brother one-on-one; resorting to violence and killing, he'll be right back to where he was at the start of the first act. 

Don't get me wrong, the Mountain does need to die (again). But I ask you now, given that the Mountain is first and foremost a walking Zombie killing machine, and is a distant second the reanimated corpse of Gregor Clegane, what would be a better ending for this character? If Gregor is his "secondary personality", why is everyone championing for a "Gregor-related" death? 

Would it not be more fitting for the Mountain to now receive a "reanimated-wight esque" death via the hands of a wight, or a reanimated Jon, the Night's King himself or even via the CotF? Or my own personal favourite, made to serve the realm for an eternity, always standing vigil, always standing in pain sorrow and torment, a never-ending duty to serve (sort of like a dark "Last Centurion" or "The Watch that Never ends"). If Sandor was resurrected by Beric / Thoros at some point previously than I think a Cleganebowl would fit the narrative and work really, really, really well..... but he hasn't..... cleganebowl (IMO) is ultimately just a grudge-revenge match, a bit too much in the realms of fan service, and as I say at the top of this post, doesn't benefit (and could be argued to actually roll back) either of the Clegane's stories over the course of the series. 

Now, all that said, there are ways that cleganebowl can go down that will fully mitigate against all of these complaints written above. Maybe Sandor does die and get resurrected in TWOW? Maybe he goes in actively knowing and realising that this is "his last fight" and we still touch on the character development achieved? Maybe there is more Gregor left in the Zombie Mountain than I am giving credit for? Yeah, there are many possibilities and circumstances, I fully recognise, that may ultimately make cleganebowl one of the best and most appreciated plot developments in the entire series. But I personally haven't seen enough foreshadowing in these areas to feel confident that this is the way we are going, and so as such, I feel "GETTING HYPE!" is grossly premature, and I do worry that if / once cleganebowl takes place, and the dust settles from the "Duel of the Ages" and people take a step back and look at how if affected Sandor in the grander picture, that they then realise it wasn't worth it and Sandor's character suffered as a consequence.  Caltrops.

Dragonglass Caltrops. I'm still confused as to how Valyrian steel kills WW. Does it have Dragon Glass infused in it? Or is there something we still don't know about it?I think the issue is that dragonglass and valyrian steel are scarce commodities. A sword or spear can be reused over and over again, but you'd need to go out into the field of battle to retrieve your dragonglass arrows.This guy....That leads to a much more mundane way that the dragons could win the war against the WWs: Dragonglass glitter bombs loaded on dragons acting as crop dusters.Step 1: Invent the air compressor

Step 2: Invent the sand blaster

Step 3: Load sand blasters with dragonglass dust

Step 4: Profit!They just need to make wildfire grenades with obsidian shrapnel and the war is won. Eztheres a very real chance that the spells put into Valerian steel blades are very much the same as the ones put into the wall. what will be interesting is how the wall and the walkers or whites react.When Jon finds the bag with dragonglass, he did find a couple arrow heads didnt he?Good idea with Dragon glass, bad idea with Valyrian steel. They don't have any way of getting more Valyrian steel yet so it's better to keep it as a weapon like a sword you can swing at a WW repeatedly rather than a one use weapon like an arrow head that you could lose in the snow if you miss your target.My thoughts exactly. 

Like in "The Walking Dead", where Malcolm is apparently the only person who comes up with the idea of putting up a bunch of pointy defenses to keep walkers at bay. Why go into hand-to-hand combat if you can avoid combat at all? could be both. there's a lot of speculation now that dragonglass is *the* secret ingredient in valyrian steel.I would assume that it has to do with how it's forged (magic/dragonfire)Good luck sparing with a White Walker. They posses inhuman strength, WW sent Jon flying with a single punch. Even a kid can kill a WW by just throwing a bunch of tiny sharp dragon glass at him, he can't dodge all of them. Also there a not so many White Walkers, maybe a dozen.DG OP, PLZ NRFGG WWGG EZIs it accepted that walkers can't pass the wall bit maybe the wights can, or can tear it down?Arrowheads, spearheads, and a few daggers is what the book says. Likely similar in the showYeah I would fully anticipate dragonglass arrows and spears.Especially when they can parry the WW as well. That's what I was thinking! I wonder if they had a way to break it down and add it to their iron ingots. there's an army of 100,000 wights and wight giants between some guys with a few dragonglass spears and the WW lieutenants. there's gonna be a lot of people dying no matter what.Why would you assume there are so few Others?

We know literally nothing about their society. But it's safe to say that they have a civilization of some kind, deep in the Lands of Eternal Winter. > Also there a not so many White Walkers, maybe a dozen.

Think about conventional medieval warfare. How often do you think archers were able to successfully hit a commanding officer?

Yes, there aren't many White Walkers, but they're unlikely to expose themselves to frontline combat. In fact, when we saw the battle at Hardhome, the White Walkers largely just watched the combat from a safe position. The only reason a WW was killed was because they intentionally went out of their way to make sure no one could get the cache of dragonglass

> Good luck sparing with a White Walker

I would take an army of thousands equipped with dragonglass spears against 12 WWs. Why would they need to spar 1-on-1? That's ridiculous.

> Even a kid can kill a WW by just throwing a bunch of tiny sharp dragon glass at him, he can't dodge all of them.

They're wearing armor.GET GUDWould that be a good ending; yeh or nah?dragonfire + dragonglass + regular steel = valyrian steelI mean for the show I think it'd def look cool

In the books, not so muchBut how do they smelt iron ingot with glass? dragonfire is hotter than anything imaginable. it's not like regular fire. 

recall Harrenhal and what Aegon+Balerion did to it.

> The walls are incredibly thick and its rooms are built on a scale that would be more comfortable for giants than humans.

> King Harren Hoare, also known as Harren the Black, had devoted most of his reign, nearly forty years, to the construction of Harrenhal, which would be the largest castle in Westeros, on the northern shore of the Gods Eye.

> When the sun had gone down, Aegon flew Balerion high above Harrenhal, before plunging down upon Harrenhal, burning the castle beneath him. All that was flammable, both suplies and ironmen, caught fire within the castle, while Harrenhal's stone towers cracked and melted. The rivermen outside observed that the towers glowed and melted like candles.

Fascinating!!! Thanks!So many upvotes for so littleI'm hoping Arya returns too. The family conversation she had with the Lannister soldiers and her whole "A girl is Arya Stark...and I'm going home" really make me think a Stark reunion is coming up. Keep going guys, I'm laughing a lot :DBran: "I have to tell you something I saw..."
Everyone: "Bran? when did you arrive?"Damn. They are going to avoide this situation:

Jon, Sansa and Brienne go to Dragonstone while the Hound arrives. I think Littlefinger goes with them or back to the Vale. You can bet it wont go further than the hound recognizing Brienne. The character motivations, rationales and memories now depend on what the audience remembers of the previous seasons and what it cares about, its doesnt depend on the character themselves acting as partially-rational beings. Thats why Samwell is the one finding out about Dragonstone's obsidian while the hand of the king who resided there doesnt know about it.         Davos has no more role to play in that story, so him being a partially-rational human being isnt important anymore.With all the awkward conversations in the north, let's not forget the ticking time bomb currently at Dragonstone: Tyrion finding out about the Sand Snakes poisoning his niece Myrcella. 

He may hate Cersei, Tywin, and Joffrey, but he seemed to be genuinely concerned for Myrcella's safety, thus sending her to Dorne (though political reasons have also played a role in that). I don't believe Tyrion would just let that slide - though, as with many of the other examples in this thread, I believe chances are the writers for the show will just never bring it up again, although it would be a really nice way to cause some infighting in Team Targaryen.Jon: "Btw everyone: I died." I thought she did tell her Arya was alive? The real awkward conversation is going to be the one the Maester is going to have to have with Sansa explaining that she's pregnant...Yeah I always thought that part was a dick king who could do whatever.Ramsey had taken over Winterfell well before the Red Wedding allowed the Boltons to take Winterfell back from the wall.>Sansa: Wait, Arya was with THE HOUND and you didn't find it relevant to tell me?

D&D *(reading this thread)*:  Oh shit, is it too late to do some pick-up shots?
Jon: "Fuck, forgot about Bran!"Brienne did tell Sansa about Ayra.
"Wait, Jon *died* and no one has told anyone?"He accepts, but not in the freezing cold.Sansa   I can warg into animals, I watched Joffrey die painfully.Doctor Of Education is the Law, and he can not be 100% trusted.Bran - I have seen things. Many many things.Well Jon knew that Bran was alive a few seasons back, and doesn't seem to have told anyone of that either. This family seems to have trouble communicating.I feel like Tyrion and Sansa would get along pretty well now...ITT: People forget conversations had by characters on tv.

For those unaware:
*Sam told Jon that Bran is alive north of the wall
*Theon told Sansa that Bran and Rickon are alive
*Rickon died in front of Sansa and Jon so they know
*Brienne told Sansa that Arya is alive and dressed like a boy

Finally, while talking about getting Winterfell back from Ramsay, Sansa said the castle belonged to her, Jon, Arya, Bran, and Rickon, heavily implying they e had a chat regarding their siblings.

Bean probably knows about Jon and Sansa now, and so the only one who probably doesn't know anything is Arya. Bran will be spilling all the tea when he gets to Winterfell. Edd got the smallest taste of the secrets Bran had and he was all "Damn, I'm not about to start throwing shade at you."

The highlight will be the no-look point at Littlefinger and the casually tossed off "And this dickhole is the mastermind behind the conspiracy that got father killed."Except, brienne did tell arya. First thing she did after she saved her and Sansa accepted her into her service. Sandor, what is all this I hear about you hanging around with my little sister?!

\-Sansa StarkUmm, doesnt Brienne tell Sansa last season that she saw Arya who was not dressed like a lady?????You mean Tyrion and Dany AND THEON arrive.Or when is Danny going to ask Varys about his assassination attempt on her? That Jorah told her about? Most characters seem to have forgotten everything that happened before season 5.Except she did tell her.

*Bran arrives at Winterfell*

Bran: Hey everyone, I'm not dead and I'm the Three-eyed Raven now!

Jon: Yigrette was right, *I really know nothing*.

Bran: Well, sorry cuz, I'm about to exacerbate that.Bran: Hey, cousin! You'll never guess what happened to me! I didn't listen to my tutor, which lead to me being marked by the ice king. That caused the wards in this tree I was staying in to fail, and it killed the remaining Children of the Forest - the ones who made the White Walkers - but it's okay, because I actually went back in time and caused Hodor's disability by taking over his body and using it as a barricade to buy us some extra time while we escaped. Then our undead uncle Benjen brought us to the wall, where Edd let us through, and here we are!

Jon: So what you're saying is that you have a "dispel magic" tattoo and you just passed through the wall, wearing that, while an unstoppable horde of ice zombies were following you? An army that has for some reason stayed away from the wall, because there's magic spells that repel them?

Bran: Yep! Cool, huh?

Jon: Fuck my life.No. 1 Most Anticipated Reunion: Pod and Tyrion.Is Tyrion being played by Borat?Even Moonboy could show up for all I know.Random question why isn't Sansa pregnant?  You left out

Hound: Hi Littlefinger, I can't believe the Stark children took you in after your orchestrated their father's death.

Sansa: Wait, what?I refuse to engage in these kind of mental gymnastics about a show that does not give a flying fuck about things like plot and character building. Brienne did tell Sansa last season.  Episode two I think.This is what we come here for.The old Winterfellian knot. The show will avoid this by doing what TV shows do.  Near misses, when one character leaves just as another shows up, or just having characters just straight up NOT talk to each other.
Anyway, I think the BwB are going to fly right over Winterfell on their way to Eastwatch, so the writers don't have to figure this one out anyway.I did not hit her! I did not!

Oh, hi Sansa!Has nobody mentioned that Jon knows Bran is alive and hasn't told Sansa?Sooo is Sansa still married to Tyrion or is she a widow? There are no rules anymore...Did Brienne even know who the hound was in their fight? Is it possible she just thought he was "a big fucker" and had Arya? I mean realistically she would know OF him, but had they ever met before the fight? I think that it will all be 'discussed' offscreenSansa knows Arya is with the hound or was.There was already an awkward conversation about all Sansas male family members dying out of nobility as opposed to Jon Snow

Who died, stupidly, for his noble cause.

He came back though so I guess whatever???Wait.

Has anyone explored the theory that the Tyrion-Sansa marriage will be honored? After how Ramsay treated her she's got to be somewhat appreciative of Tyrion's respect?

Jon yields Winterfell to Bran to assume the throne with Dany, Tyron and Sansa go to Casterly Rock?If Robin dies, aren't the Stark kids heir to the Vale through their mother?Sansa: Hey, Jon, remember when Theon killed Bran and Rickon?

Jon: Yeah.

Sansa: So, umm... Remember when Ramsey killed Rickon?

Jon: Yeah.

Sansa: Doesn't that mean that Bran... Oh, never mind.

Jon: Don't worry about that, sweet sister. Kingindanorf fanservice, baby!Well Tyrion is the Hand of the Westeros' soon-to-be-Queen (asssuming the WW don't kill her) so he is in a good position to (re-)marry her.Sandor: hello little bird

Sansa: let him in,  he saved me more than once in Kings landing. 

Arya: he WOT?I wish conversations in the show were this logical....

Here is a Season 6 Most Awkward Conversation nominee.

Dany: Okay you can be queen of the iron Islands.
Asha: Okay, then you can have my ships.
Dany: But you can't reave my lands.
Asha: But that's what we do.....
Dany: Not anymore.
Asha makes a sad face.>Sansa: Wait, Arya was with THE HOUND and you didn't find it relevant to tell me?

Brienne does tell Sansa about her encounter with arya and sandor. Sansa asks how she looks, and Brienne remarks how she looks fine and is dressed like a boy.Also, Littlefinger betrayed Ned Stark (a fact Sansa has ignored for seasons now and would be critical context for any "alliance" Jon hopes to have with the Vale).Brann when he arrives to Winterfell, "Hey Jon, i got some crazy shit to tell you" > Jon: Wait, Arya's ALIVE and nobody found it relevant to tell me?

To be fair, Jon knows Arya is alive. The Sansa / Tyrion meeting is going to be gold. Brienne did tell sansa about arya though, right before Theon left for the Iron Islands I'm pretty sure Brienne did tell Sansa and Jon that Arya was with the hound... just saying.Jon: Hi Auntie.

They could have an entire episode of just the BWB arriving at Winterfell and the various conversations.

Sandor: "And who the fuck are you?"

Tormund: "I'm her boyfriend."

Brienne: "No, he's not."

Pod: "Has anyone seen Lord Tyrion?"

Thoros: "Come 'ere, lad. Look into the flames."

Davos: "Oh shit, not another one."

Jon to Beric: "Be careful around these red priests, if you die they just bring you back."

Beric: "Really?"

Thoros: "Will everyone please look at the flames?"

Everyone: "No!"Don't forget Theon showing up with Dany when Meera carts Bran through the gates. 

Now *THAT* will be pure LOLBBQsauce awkwardness. Arya: Bran, listen. I got my sight back after being blind. Hold out for your miracle, too. 

Bran: ....well, I have three eyes now so. It's cute how you guys think the writers will bother with this level of character interaction. What do you think they are, professionals?Sansa (or anyone really): "Speaking of things we haven't talked about, weren't you dead for a while Jon?"The Hound is going to Eastwatch, he saw it in the flames. I really want Sansa and Tyrion to reunite. The last time they saw each other was at Joffrey's wedding and now they are both free and in charge of their lives. It would be interesting to see what they have to say to each other or just be happy for the other in general. We may see Bran at Winterfell soon as well...

Hey Jon/Sansa...I'm still alive...so....well...get out of my chair....definitely forgot that sansa and brienne are both sitting on the whole "arya being alive" information...Does annulment/divorce exist in Westeros? Joffrey set aside his betrothal to marry Margery, and also he was a dick king who could do whatever. He also dismissed a KG LC.

Technically Jon being king is the Law, and he can legally annul the marriage, however I can't recall if the Northern tradition places religious authority over marriage. Maybe they can go into the godswood and annul it front of the heart tree, saying Sansa was coerced into it? 

Ninja edit: I forgot she already married Ramsay and he died, so the Tyrion annulment due to lack of consummation is already addressed."Is everyone sitting down? Good, because you're not gonna believe the shit I got to say" - Bran
I realized this last episode, when Bran arrives at Winterfell it's going to be really frustrating seeing him not communicate stuff to people.

"Oh hi Sansa, I should probably tell you how Littlefinger led to the downfall of our family, but whatever"

"Jon, you might want to know that you're closely related to someone you might soon meet and want to bone, eh, whatever, forget it."There's also the fact that it took Sam however long to get to the citadel, fill bowls with soup and empty pots of poop, build up enough balls to steal the keys to the locked section of the library, then read enough books to find out some useful intel on the white walkers... and the only relevant piece of information he has to convey was... 

'Turns out Stannis was right, there IS dragonglass on Dragonstone'

I can't wait for his next letter.

"Dear Jon, 

I have found out, through EXTENSIVE SHIT SHOVELING RESEARCH, that ice is cold, don't stay out in the cold too long.

TTYL,

Sammy Tarls"She told her about this before theon left them.what?
I just assume that they all told each other some of this already. Except for maybe Brienne...

Either way, there will be some fun family dinners coming up!He'd probably feel bad about her being brutally raped for a month straight.I can't wait!

And for him to reveal the BIG secret. Oh, the joy!She and Tyrion did speak about that, actually. He pointed out that if Varys really did mean to kill her, she'd likely be dead. Bran: Hey, you guys remember Hodor, right?Jon: Hey, Bran!

Bran: *looks towards The Wall*

Jon: What?

Bran: My bad...Maybe she IS pregnant!Not all women get pregnant very easily. 

And while rape can result in a pregnancy, we can't be sure if Ramsay was even raping Sansa in such a way that would result in pregnancy. The stress of the situation alone could make conceiving difficult, especially if she was raped almost every single night, wasn't eating right, and if Ramsay was torturing her more than really having sex with her.Tansy AFHow do the hound knows?*[Seinfeld bass]*Failed to mention that it was the Hound, just a man. Insignificant detail apparently.I mean, near misses was what made the story so frustrating but also we're getting to the end. Characters will meet back up. If Arya weren't going south, next episode would probably have the entire Stark clan of children together again  I think he told her, it came up in the convo about Jon not knowing about Arya being alive.   Sansa telling Jon that Winterfell is Arya's, Bran's, and Rickon's home too.I believe they already addressed this in the show that sense Tyrion never consummated the marriage Sansa's marriage to him is null (which was how Ramsay was able to take Sansa as his wife (which he did consummate)).When  Brienne and Podrick encounter arya and the hound, Podrick literally, verbatim says "that's Sandor Clegane, the hound">  all Sansas male family members

Meanwhile, Rickon lies forgotten in the grave...Robb didn't die because of nobility, he broke a promise to protect Jeyne's honor / because he fell in love with Talisa.Jon might try, but Bran won't let him, Bran is the Three Eyed Raven now, that's his role.   I don't see Jon marrying Dany, not after all the shit that is about to go down.   Sansa going back to Tyrion is not in the cards, their marriage was never consummated which lead to being married to Ramsey, which has left her damaged.  I don't see her marrying anyone anytime soon, nor do I see Jon upholding the marriage to Tyrion or making her marry anyone for political reasons.   Jon wants to protect her, she wants her pack and to be the master of her own fate.   I don't think Tyrion will force the issue either, besides he seems to be too in awe of Dany plus Sansa's height is much grown.I've also thought that the match could be pretty good. Sansa's not a child anymore, and certainly not a virgin of any spot on her body, so Tyrion shouldn't be creeped out to be married to a kid anymore. It would be a great way to cement a new Stark/Lannister alliance.It goes to harry the heir/Harrold HardyngI don't see how Catelyn inherits from Lysa though.  It's the Arryns whose lineage matters.No, Lysa has no claim to the Vale so neither does Cat/her kids. Lysa just acts as regent for Sweetrobin.Maybe if Little finger dies too...Jon knew Bran was alive in season 4. Sam told him. He also knows Bran is somewhere north of the wall.Pretty sure Clegane told Arya that story in like season 3 or 4. I remember it.I hate how they made Tyrion say that Theon was a dick to him back at Winterfell when it was Tyrion making fun of Theon.Dany: Our fathers were evil men. But we will make the world good!

Yara: Um, I didn't sign up for that.I didn't find that conversation awkward at all.  Asha had a proposal. Dany lays out the terms of her approval. Asha agreed.  When? Honest question, I don't remember this.*a fact that Sansa hasn't been toldSince when?I wonder if she'll like his beard.Nope, just "a man".I laughed WAY harder than I should've.Davos just looks directly into the nearest camera with a sigh.This just reminds me of the old Clue movie. I'd be down if Tim Curry, Martin Mull and Christopher Lloyd appeared in WinterfellAnyone else craving a Tormund Sandor bromance now?But what is Thoros going to do when Bran's tree vision is revealed to be incredibly more powerful than his pitiful flame vision?  

Thoros: "Stare into the flames and you might get a glimpse of the future."

Bran: "A glimpse of the future?  I can communicate with my dead father in the past and mind control people across space and time.  I'll just generate a complete 3D image of where the army of the dead is right now and scout them in perfect detail."  > Jon to Beric: "Be careful around these red priests, if you die they just bring you back."

lol you had me laughing so much I coughed.I am sooo looking forward to seanzoz parody video for this episode.Bran: well well well, what's up Theon?

Theon: ............. 

Bran: ?

Theon: ..............................Jon: I died and was ressurected

Bran: I can warg into animals, I can see the past through the weirwood net.

Arya: I was trained by assassins and can use dead people's faces to disguise myself.

Sansa: I got a new wig this season...I love all the anti D&D salt on here.Reminds me of LOST.

WHY WON'T YOU TELL HIM YOU RANDOMLY MET HIS FATHER IN AUSTRALIA ADLKFJDALKF DLKFJD "No more than you were on your wedding night.""Yhea, but it sucked, so I quit that shit and became king instead. Now stop trying to have an opinion in front of people, k?""I got better."Since jon was born of the blood of the dragon (fire blood) why wouldn't this be as good as him never having died? He was d
Resurected by fire which is how he was born.? Fire and ice targaryen and stark.Did you not watch the scene right after she shows up at Castle Black? They clearly talked about it off screen. Tormund: they see you as some kind of god....... but youll still have to convince them to fight for you because reasons Jon: well I can't get high anymore, because I'm undead; can't get it up anymore, because I'm undead; but what do you care? There's no change in my demeanor or facial expression. No big deal, right? Why bother reacting to itYou don't think they will go to the massive army at Winterfel and try to recruit on their way to Eastwatch?  Surely they don't think they can defend it against the army of the dead on their own.  Could be the Shadowtower, too. The dead would have access to the Bridge of Skulls that way as well. I'm afraid they will defend the wrong place. But the easiest way to Eastwatch, if not by ship, is directly through Winterfell. I'm excited for the Tyrian / Pod reunion too!!I really think Tyrion and Sansa end up together. I mean, they ARE married. And now the he's on the side of Dany and showing that he's willing to fight and kill the Lannisters, she will finally remember how kind and gentle he was with her. After Ramsey, she HAS to see how Tyrion could have acted but did not.

It would be a rather happy marriage for both of them, actually. She'd get a caring and thoughtful husband while he'd get an intelligent and beautiful wife.

But this is Game of Thrones, so maybe not a happy ending. Happy isn't what they do.Jon: "LOL, fuck off cripple"I doubt Bran is gonna be worried about Jon sitting in the high chair for the time being considering the threat they face. Even though Winterfell is rightfully Bran's, Jon is currently the King of the North so Bran would surely give Jon the seat for the time being. It isn't like Jon has a castle or throne of his own yet, and neither Bran or Jon seem the type to argue over who gets to sit in their father's chair. Except if Bran knows the lineage of JS, he knows that JS should be sitting on the chair, not him.  Right?I’m pretty sure that Arya being alive was part of the whole offscreen conversation between Jon and Sansa after the epic hug.  When Sansa was trying to convince Jon that they needed to take Winterfell back from the Bolton’s she said brought that it was Bran, Rickon and ARYA’S home too.  Just because it’s the conversation we want to see doesn’t mean it’s the one D&D think we to.Maybe she'll use that info to convince Jon to go to war, and then when the battle's about to start she'll say "There's no way they'll let Arya live" like she did with Rickon.> I can't recall if the Northern tradition places religious authority over marriage.

By Northern tradition they'd be the wrong gods anyway.If the Seven Faith works like real life medieval Catholics, the High Sparrow/Pope can [annul a marriage](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Declaration_of_nullity) for whatever reason he comes up with.> Technically Jon being king is the Law,

Technically Jon is a traitor (as seen by the current Westerosi government). But then again, the current government is only government in name as over half of the kingdom doesn't obey. With all the broken formalities, some marriage that no party wants is unlikely to be valid.I hope they do reunite, I am a bit of a Sansa Tyrion shipper Tyler Perry's Song of Ice and Fire.All joking aside, I really am looking forward to the look on Sansa's face when Bran corroborates Jon's story about the Others. "You're argument doesn't have any legs!" - Same Old Asshole who always interupts Stark Hall meetings. That's not going to happen on screen. If Jon gets to know, we'll see Bran approaching Winterfell, we'll see Jon's face, and that would be it. Next episode they'll have already done their catch up."Everybody that has Ned Stark please step forward--not so fast Jon!"Is bran sitting down?...which is exactly why Bran is permanently sitting down.> "Is everyone sitting down?" - Bran

There's a joke in there somewhere... Damn it, there's a joke there...

Damn it, I fucked it up. I'm the worst at stand-up.

Well, 2nd worst."First of all, why is Jon sitting in my seat?" Is everyone sitting down?  Well everyone else...I accidentally read that as Bronn, and laughed my ass off. He's most likely gonna discuss his payment with Tyrion"Is everyone sitting down? Oh only me huh..." -Bran"hold my beer" -BranI feel a more appropriate phrase would be "y'all ain't gonna believe"> "Is everyone sitting down? Good, because you're not gonna believe the shit I got to say" - Bran

More like this: "Is everyone sitting down? Good, because I want to talk to you all face to face." - BranIt's going to be really hard to use Bran as anything but as an exposition machine or basically doing what the Hound did in the fire scene and just telling people where to go next in the plot. 

All of his decisions are a paradox since he already knows the consequences. Take it down a notch, Jon.  
You're lording over us.It would be great if he told them everything relevant and they still find a way to make the show interesting. Hi Jon, just so you know, your mom is Lyanna Stark.  
  
Fucking hell dad, and you give the Lannisters shit.  
  
Ned's not your dad.  
  
Oh well, guess I'm still a bastard.I was just thinking about khalessi and khal drogo and how she got pregnant even though she was kinda getting raped by him.  Your answer still makes sense and does explain of why not. Soooo she's single? ;)I'm glad it wasn't a figurative verbatim. That'd be much more confusing. 

Thanks for jogging my memory! I forgot the exact wording but it was the idea Ned and Robb and all the noble men she looked up to going out and nobly dying - just like Jon did.  He was doing everything he did in service of his father and his family name - you're right in that he failed to adhere to that but the very reason he was in conflict with the Lannisters and the Freys was because of his family honor, wouldn't you agree?

Not that he was very smart about it with the Talisa thing.  

I took that more of a way of saying that Robb was not destined to live or love or fight or win or any of it - just die, no matter what he did, largely because of who he was born.  "and certainly not a virgin of any spot on her body" interesting way to describe being violently and repeatedly raped. But harry the heir isn't in the show, is he?I know. Except that he didn't tell Sansa. And she apparently didn't think it weird that Rickon, presumed dead, turned up in Winterfell. She definitely didn't think to ask.

Apparently none of the northern lords did either. But that's fine, neither did the writers.It is known.but didn't he also say he should have raped her? when he was "dying"?
 exactly... but I got the impression she was skeptical.  So if Sansa confirmed his story there would be magicIt's illogical because Asha expected to be able to torment Dany's realm. That's like me moving in with a roommate having to tell him/her to not go in my room to steal my stuff. It's implied.When Brienne saves her and Theon from the Bolton men. Around the campfire just after that. Theon tells Sansa he's leaving in the same scene and asks to take a horse.Last season Sansa says: 

> "Winterfell is our home. **It's ours and Arya's and Bran's and Rickon's. Wherever they are, it belongs to our family. We have to fight for it."**

Sansa told him at some point, though, given everything that's happened north of the Wall, I think Jon thinks Bran is dead. Brienne told Sansa that Arya is alive, and now Sansa and Jon are working together at Winterfell. I'd imagine she would share that with him, especially knowing how close they wereEven though Pod straight up says "that's sandor clagane. The hound" when they meet iirc*eating chicken together~*Thoros: "Ah, but do you have a topknot?"What is that? Is that the guy that makes [these](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=ScQOrbNbopM) videos?The ChrysWatchesGOT is going to be superb Well Bran can interfere with the past as well.Sansa: I'm so popular that I was bethrothed to three members of royalty! Sansa: I got the best gift of all, I watched Joffrey die painfully.Any time a television show is described as a "Drama", I just assume it's code for "nobody talks to anybody about important shit ever."Wait ... if Jon is the blood of the dragon and can't be burned, how did his hand get burned by the Other in the first book???Right? Fuck these idiots who berate the show for not ham fisting shit into there faces.Stannis fought for a god, look where it got him.I agree with you that the show needed to focus on this more, they should have touched on this more.Well the big deal is, he can't have kids bc he's dead, right? And he's *maybe* gonna get with Dany, who also can't have kids bc that witch woman killed her baby and said she'd never have another. So it's not like they can take back the 7 kingdoms and revitalize the Targaryan dynasty. They're kinda in the same spot as the Lannister family, unless Jamie decides to settle down and stop being a sisterfucker. But they'd also have to go the entire distance of the wall and then some from Hardhome. Which would mean the NW might be able to learn that's where they're going if they have scouts and don't close up the tunnels.I don't think the northerners will be happy with the BwB passing through their lands.  I bet they go by boat."Been getting the 'lay' of the land, Podrick?"Yeah but you still have to have some attraction right? Maybe this is when gendry rows up and she falls in love. She might work with him to defeat the WW, but she won't return to being his wife.   They never consummated the marriage that was forced on them.   You really think Jon is going to make her go back into a Lannister's hands after all the shit she has gone through?   She would not be happy being Tyrion's wife.   She isn't leaving Winterfell for the foreseeable future.   How was Sansa married to Ramsey if she was still married to Tyrion? I know they sent Jeyne Poole in her stead, but was that explained in the show? I can't remember.With at least some of the non-supernatural parts of asoiaf being based on the War of the Roses, I think it's a possibility that Tyrion and Sansa do stay together. That conflict ended with an intermarriage of psions of the house of Lancaster (Lannister) and York (Stark) to create a new ruling lineage, the Tudors (Westerosi equivalent not yet known). Of course, there's no guarantee that GRRM will end things that way just because that was part of the initial outline, but it's food for thought. > I really think Tyrion and Sansa end up together. I mean, they ARE married.

If a marriage isn't consimated and the woman remarries and that new marriage is consimated, I believe that first marriage isn't recognized. But this is GOT, a fantasy show/story where people get stabbed, jump into a sewage riddled canal and are a-ok. So who knows really.They aren't really married together at this point according to general customs since they never consummated and she was married off to another who she did consummate with.This would be the ultimate book/show deviation because in the books there's no way in hell that Tyrion and Sansa end up together.Plus it kinda completes Sansa's character arc. She started out thinking knights and princes are beautiful and perfect all the time, it would be hella poetic for her to be happily married to the ugliest man in Westeros.i kind of agree with you! they're both ambitious and tyrion will always find his way up at the top of the political ladder, which is what she seems to want too. Why? Line of rule passes to son. Edd was the head of winterfell, so it goes to bran. Jon is the son of lyanna, who has no claim to winterfell. If he has been Brandon's son then yes he would have more claim to winterfell before edd thus bran. Should he? Ned was King of Winterfell, it would go to his son, not his nephew.

Edit: Ned was Lord of Winterfell, and really it would be going to Robb Stark's brother since he was King after Ned was gone.pick up uNo, Jon would be the Targ heir, not the Stark heir.  It would go all of Ned's legal sons by age, all of Ned's daughter's by age, and then Jon.  Yes. When your King arrives at your castle, your throne belongs to him unless he turns it down for diplomatic purposes. But if you're waging a war from that seat, then the king would absolutely be the one to sit in the Lord's chair. Bran is the trueborn son of Ned, who was Lyanna's elder brother. Why would the bastard son of the younger daughter inherit over the trueborn son of the elder brother who was lord in his own right?Does being a Targaryan give him claim to the North? No,  Bran would be the eldest Stark. Jon,  if legitimate,  is a Targaryen,  and therefore NOT a Lord of WinterfellJust the opposite! If Bran knows the lineage of Jon, he knows Jon should *not* be ruling at Winterfell as the King in the North, because he's no Stark and has bigger thrones to sit on.No, Bran would be lord and sitting on the chair. The north still goes to Bran. Jon is still a bastard, since Rhaegar and Lyanna never married.  Even if they had married and Jon was legitimate,  he would be the rightful heir to the Iron Throne,  but not Winterfell. Winterfell would pass to the eldest living son of Ned, that being Bran. He may know, but he may not understand what he knows. The famous offscreen conversation between Sansa and Jon must have been one of the wildest, most unbelievably interesting scenes of dialogue in the whole show. How much did they cover in that thing? Jon's resurrection, the status of all their siblings, the Others/White Walkers, the mess of politics down south, and hell what they up to for five seasons? and the first thing we hear onscreen is "this is good soup"? Yeah, D&D would much rather give us a pointless convo between Arya and Ed Sheeran lolFucking exactly. Why people can't wrap there heads around this is beyond me.Go to war with whom? With the BwB? The faceless men? Nymeria's pack?It makes a certain political sense and he is just about the only unrelated man who has ever treated her with respect.Why?  I don't recall the show giving us any indication that Sansa doesn't believe Jon about the Others.Very true.Hodor"hold my Jojen paste"Gods, if they do an asoiaf fan musical (like AVPM), I want the whole thing to be in southern American accents.r/ImGoingToHellForThis"I've done all the **legwork** and I know what we need to do. We need make a **stand** against the enemy, the one who **walks** with the dead."Love the flair"did hodor forget his pants again, or is there an elephant at winterfell now"
Ok my power went out during the Hound section of the episode, and I got no wifi so can you tell me what happened there?I am hoping he ends up like Bloodraven... not necessarily 'rooted' but by some form of warg/psychological battle, be secluded, immobilized, and mostly unable to communicate...

He would love to share all the needed spoiler info, but if he lets go his hold on the massive flock of ravens doing battle, the line falters so to speak...

His powers are making him too powerful... warg into anything at any point in time, see past n future..... the only way Bran gets to live, is to put him out of communication.

Otherwise, we are losing another Stark... the last of the male line as far as GoT is concerned.

I kinda hope he survives, mostly observing via warg, and takes over the rebuilt nights watch, and becomes the new age Bran the builder, rebuilding the wall....Does this mean he dies when the wall falls?Until Howland Reed walks in.... Yeah it's getting worrisome.  Especially since the writers don't seem to have the same nuanced knack for dialogue solo than they did with source material.

This first episode was ridiculously awesome in some ways, and also had some stretches of dialogue that sounded like a C-list hollywood writer copy-pasting some bland, generic lines from an old piece.Almost as if the dangers of prophecy are a theme.  Hmmm.

Like how Melisandre saw Renly crush Stannis in battle, so instead of doing battle with Renly, Stannis assasinated him.  

When an actual battle started, it was Wyllas Tyrel wearing Renly's armor who crushed Stannis, thus fulfilling the original prophecy.The writers are finding it difficult enough to make *any* character not seem like an exposition machine.>All of his decisions are a paradox since he already knows the consequences.

i don't think we can take this as a given. 

in the last episode we were shown that bran, while doing his bloodraven-history-walk-stuff, is capable of influencing the past..... right?

he went back to the ToJ, to when ned was running up to the tower. bran didn't say anything, and yet ned still turned around, confused, as if he'd heard something. which only happened *because* bran called his name out the FIRST time he was watching the ToJ stuff with bloodraven, and that seemed to influence ned. he clearly heard something, and turned around. and that *became* history, became what happened. 

i know time travel and past-influencing shit is always a bit of an unexplainable paradox in movies/tv, but that's what appears to be happening to me, at least. 

i wouldn't rule out the possibility of bran influencing the past in another vision he has, which would mean he doesn't *necessarily* already know the consequences/what's going to happen in every situation.Bran can fly dragons right? Seems like a potentially useful talent. Knowing the future doesn't mean he knows how to get there. I hope he plays a bigger role then just telling people things.It's like *That's So Raven* except with more ravens, and fewer romance-based hijinks. Sansa: "I think I'll retire to my chambers, good night."

Bran: "You're going to the Hound's room and you're not wearing any underwear."

Sansa: "Worst. Little Brother. Ever."

Bran: "Shall I recite your diary without even looking at it?"The hound didn't tell them where to go.... they were already going that way, they're already marching northDoes he?  Are we sure he can see the future...or just the past...?No kidding, although I'm sure OC didn't mean anything by it. I wouldn't be surprised if Sansa still sort of considers herself a virgin, at least in name if not in fact. I don't know that she's ever had sex that she consented to have, actually. :-( Tyrion is definitely a man with healthy appetites, and while I kind of do like the idea of them being together and I think he'd be patient with and good to her, I don't know how compatible they would be in that sense. Sansa would definitely have some trauma to work through. No. But can always be added if required. But then again if they make someone else heir wouldnt be the first time they changed everything. But pretty sure if have to be someone from the Vale. Stark kids arent in line to inherit itTheon told her bran and rickon were alive in season 5...Ah he was just trying to get Arya angry so she'd kill him.But is that implied or shown on camera? I'm not trolling, I honestly don't remember. Gotta rewatch.I would not be surprised if they just ignore something like that in the show.> Thoros: "Ah, but do you have ~~a topknot~~ **functional legs**?"

FTFYI'm sorry, youtube is blocked on my work network, but I believe his YT handle is seanzoz, he makes a bunch of parody videos for games mostly, but also for each GoT episode, and they're hilarious.What's ChrysWatchesGOT and how can I get in on it?Didn't she me run as suoon as he started chocking?& also RamsayThere needs to be a website for this.

How to resolve {SHOW-NAME} with one conversation that any sane real people would have had by now.

It's lazy writing.Yes. So many plotlines are killed by a detailed conversationThe targaryens are not immune to fire, it is explained by grrm at some point that it was blood magic that allowed her to be unscathed by the fire, she burned the witch alive when her dragons were born, in the show she burned the khals alive when she walked out of the dosh Kaleen (spelling? It's been a while) place. 

I'm pretty sure in her final chapter in ADWD her hands were burned and blistered from drogon while she was walking from drogons "storms end"Agreed.  I always enjoy reading the post-episode discussion but it is annoying to have to scroll past half the comments of people bitching about THEY DIDN'T SHOW THIS! UGHH THE SHOWRUNNERS ARE SO DUMB! The premier discussion it appeared people could not get over the fact Dragonstone was empty.   For me I just imagined an expiditionary/scouting force landed ahead of the main army or the skeleton crew/grounds crew immediately surrendered to the initial beeching/scouting party upon seeing fucking dragons.  The show doesn't need to show a pointless skirmish or siege of Dragonstone when all we need to see is Dany setting foot on Westeros. Stannis fought for power, 'the God' was just a way to get what he wanted.Honestly I would have felt that as wasted time because they undoubtedly would have wound up in the same place. They have both been through very traumatic events and are just happy to not be fighting for their lives for a few minutes.

It's like people complaining that Davos was at Jon's table in the new episode. It feels like there was a conversation that wasn't that interesting.  

If the show described everything that went on it'd be boring as fuck.If they wanted to be realistic, 90% of the show would be everyone just saying "Holy shit, right? Like what the fuck?"Couldn't Tyrion have children he's ugly af but surely that doesn't prevent him from being able to father a child Who says he can't have kids? Nothing of the sort was mentioned or implied iirc.There is nothing saying Jon can't have kids, his eyes are moist meaning his tear ducts work, there no reason his junk wouldn't work as well.  His body was also frozen much more well preserved than Beric's.

Dany's barrenness prophecy has already ended in the books, in the show it will just be explained away as the witch fucking with her.The Lannisters will manage. They have a shit ton of cadet branches iirc>  witch woman killed her baby and said she'd never have another.

MMD?  There's a few theories on that Sun rise in the west set in the east.

First and most obvious: It's a complicated way of saying never.

Second, it's a curse.  Curses are curses right?  Not really, in faerie tales, curses are stronger if given an escape clause.  Without that clause, the best you can do is give everyone the sniffles.  With the clause, it's a combination of Ebola, Black Death, and AIDS....

The archmage can't turn everyone in a castle to stone normally, but he can if he says something like "And stone you shall be until this castle rises higher than the clouds." 500 years later some evil version of Elon Musk buys the castle and rebuilds it on top of his skyscraper, freeing everybody from the curse...  See:

* Sleeping beauty

* Gargoyles cartoon

* Stardust

* Most of the Ravenloft campaign setting and companion novels

There's more escape clause curses, but I'm tired.idk why jon wouldnt be able to have kids. hes for sure aliveWell technically there seems to be a huge difference between an ice wight and fire wight. That being that fire wight seem to have be almost the same as before they died with only a little memory loss as a side effect. A fire wight's blood still pumps they make scar tissue and heal the wounds that killed them. It seems to be as if R'hollor is just a gamer and uses a stimpack when his favorite character dies.I'm more curious as to how blood gets through his body at all. Wounds stay when they get rez'd which means Jon has several holes in his heart. Didn't Jamie have to renounce his claim to any land or titles when joined the KingsGuard?  Can he un-renounce and lay claim to Casterly Rock etc?  >Dany, who also can't have kids bc that witch woman killed her baby and said she'd never have another.

Not never. 

"When the sun rises in the west and sets in the east," said Mirri Maz Duur. "When the seas go dry and mountains blow in the wind like leaves. When your womb quickens again, and you bear a living child. Then he will return, and not before."

Look for symbolism.>  Dany, who also can't have kids bc that witch woman killed her baby and said she'd never have another. 

Im not sure where it is at in the show, but Dany (probably) had a period recently, so she might have healed.What is dead may never die, but rises again, harder and stronger.I kinda think Jon, free of his celibate vows from the wall is gonna be boning his sister and auntie. I n s t a l l  D e m o c r a c yMaybe he left a canister of his hyper-virile sperm in the ice cells back at the wall.One would assume they'd at least stop by Winterfell to let them know the White Walkers are coming and try to recruit men for the battle.The BWB are northerners though, aren't they? They were dispatched by Ned to deal with the Mountain's pillaging. I doubt their families are going to turn them away.Boat, in winter, in the north....going north!

Dnd wouldn't dare... would they?Would the BwB be abnormally maligned by Northerners? Sure they've killed Northern looters but they're a pretty well known Anti-Lannister force. Yeah, they basically nullified the marriage between Tyrion and Sansa. I wonder if Tyrion knows this. Knowing things is half of what he does.I think the High Septon has to annul the marriage, so technically her marriage to Ramsey wasn't valid.

I have this feeling that when Dany/Tyrion meet up, Jon will have to agree that Sansa honours her marriage to Tyrion because it's the only way to secure an alliance and win the support of Dany's dragons against the WW.

That would be an interesting conundrum for Jon!

Speaking of marriages, do you think Jon will suggest Alys Karstark marry a wildling? Could be a real litmus test to see how accepting the North really are of the free folk...Two separate religious ceremonies thoughYes. Everyone keeps forgetting this. Why?Is someone cutting onions in here?  Dammit...Tbh, show Tyrion is actually pretty hot. If he was normal height he'd be glorious.Who also happens to be one of the best and smartest as well.What if Robb wrote a letter appointing Jon as his successor though? In that case, wouldn't that make Jon lord of Winterfell no matter what? Just to point out, Ned was only Lord of Winterfell and Warden of the North. Robb Stark was the first King of the North to be declared in hundreds of years.Pick up.... my phone?  Are you calling me?  Pls explainEven if he's King in the North?  (I'm not arguing, just asking!)I'm not saying I'm right, just trying to understand it all.  And JS isn't necessarily a bastard.  (but if he wasn't it would diminish his claim to WF's Lorship)As I understand it from the books' succession rules:

1. If Lyanna and Rhaegar were legally married, then Jon as a Targaryen would still come after Sansa, who herself would come after Bran.

2. If Lyanna and Rhaegar were not legally married, which I find more likely since they would have needed the High Septon's approval for a second marriage for Rhaegar, then Jon as a Targaryen bastard would still come after Sansa and Bran.

3. It's really about exhausting Ned's line first before the claim passes to Lyanna's line, since Benjen is a Black Brother.

4. Jon as a Stark bastard, as he's known by all, would still come after Sansa and Bran. 

5. If Robb has disinherited Sansa because Tyrion might come to control Winterfell in her name as her husband, then Jon would come after Bran. But then Robb might have put down to writing that he wishes Jon to succeed him, so there lies the intrigue if Bran does eventually turn up. Ned's bastard or Ned's oldest surviving trueborn son? dun dun dun
 
5. But the show decided to name him king after Robb, without emphasizing Robb's will which designates Jon as his heir. It's a tricky tricky thing, since this endangers succession rules in the long run after the War for the Dawn. Oh, this male bastard looks like he's more capable to lead us than the eldest trueborn child, here comes local disputes which might lead to wars. And then the ladies might start assassinating their husband's bastards etc.

6. In an ideal world (where Rickon is still alive and Jon is known only as Ned's bastard), Bran would be King, Rickon would be heir, and Jon would be Lord Protector of the North.As I understand it, it depends.  If his parents were married he's a Targ, but if not he's a Stark bastard that's older, and of double royal blood lineage.  Also, he's not tasked with arguably the greatest "job" ever (being the 3-eyed-Raven).

And, also if Targ... yeah, b/c he should be sitting on the Iron Throne as the rightful heir since his lineage pre-dates the Baratheons (which only Gendry is left, and he's a bastard, too).  But that plus him actually just being voted King in the North, with Stark blood....?  Dany is a woman so even though she's his aunt, it goes to the next male, I think.  Question mark?

It's all very grey, IMO.He's not lord of Winterfell, true. But he is King in the North.Got it, thx m8The son on the female side would still be a Stark. He is just also a Targaryen.Hes literally the same amount of Stark that he was before the reveal just added some Targaryen. Out of curiosity, because I seem to not fully grasp the rules...wouldn't Sansa be next in line anyways? She is now the eldest, and other houses have female leaders (Lyanna Mormont and now Alys Karstark), so wouldn't Bran be third in line behind Sansa and Arya?Huh? I thought Jon is currently the King in the North, not really Lord of Winterfell which should be arguably Sansa's. So if Bran returns, Jon can just give him Winterfell and take Castle Black as his seat as long as Bran swears fealty to the King. Pity Bran cannot bend his knees anymore.We don't know for certain that Rhaegar and Lyanna never married, mind you. Targaryens allowed multiple marriages.Not gonna matter in my head bc Jon and his aunt Dany are just gonna marry and he'll be King Consort of the Seven Kingdoms> ed in other ways" but it could just be me. i feel like this season will see at least stark characters setting aside old rules of succession in order to just stay together. having winterfell back is enough for them, after what they've been through. i doubt they'll squabble amongst themselves. 

Does bran really care about sitting on a throne. i think he will support jon snow since both of them have only one thing in their mind "the night king" (it will further irritate sansa :D)i feel like after everything bran sees he'll be like "that's the least of my concerns, and i can't fight as lord bc i have no legs. my skills are best used in other ways" but it could just be me. i feel like this season will see at least stark characters setting aside old rules of succession in order to just stay together. having winterfell back is enough for them, after what they've been through. i doubt they'll squabble amongst themselves. Fair point!I got them feels, reading this sub. Ha ha, that's probably why they didn't film it. How would you even go about relaying all the crazy shit that's gone down between the two of them in one conversation? It would take the whole episode lol.Arya's encounter with those Lannister soldiers was to humanise an enemy Arya thought was completely evil. It reminds not just her but the audience too of one of GoT's greatest messages in morality: it's grey. 

Him being a famous singer is not important because he is acting, like every other actor in every scene of the show. It was not pointless. Or a poop and soup montage *sigh* Yeah. I'd pretty much kill for a reunion between Jon and Arya, but hey, "hands of gold."  Because "who knows what, when" is a big freaking deal in the books, and until now, it's been rather important on the show, too.Yes!You really think Jon is going to marry Sansa off for political reasons after all she's gone through and the fact he wants to protect her.  I don't see that happening.Other than the Hound, who is also turning up...Rhaegars heir trumps Starks, Bran should know, it is known.You know the Lannisters would totally rock a high class southern plantation drawl.  I'm still convinced Ser Arthur Dayne should have been Jon Snow's dad. At least in the books, anyway."That's Tormund, he's trying to impress Brienne."Willas Tyrell is a cripple. Garlan did that.You mean like the time he warged into a guy in the present who he could see in the past and caused him to turn into a half-giant who can only say one word?GrossHe looks down the stairs

Tears are running down his face

She pushes the chair. I would shove my fucking face in a fire and call my grandmother a cunt to get Sophie Turner to walk into my room.

Sansa is underage, can't be dealing with all those replies."I can read your diary without getting up"Subscribe.They were going north but not east watch by the sea specifically. Is it future?...Or....is it past?This seems to be something most people are confused about. 

It seems that brans visions of the past are mostly just him *warging the wierwoods* and seeing their memories. 

His green dreams seem to be something else entirely, not something he has control over. 

As far as I'm aware we've never seen him choose to have a vision of the future. Is it future? Or is it past?I'm convinced he saw the future in the second scene of Sunday's episode. Look at that giant, the one dressed exactly like Wun Wun and missing his right eye. The very next cut is to Bran. I thought he was scouting the NK army by warging, but on rewatch I'm sure he was having a greensight vision of the future.He saw the wildfyre explosion happen before it happened so yes, he can see the future.Yeah we've seen him see the future a few times in those vision montages and that was before he mastered his powers. We also see Jojen describe the future. Yeah all good points. I thought the "Tyrion thought she was just a kid, but since Ramsey raped her so much, now he'd be fine having sex with her" logic to be a bit offWelp. I guess neither she, nor anybody else cares. Nobody except Jon cared that Rickon died, so I guess there's that.You mean like when Arya had to throw rocks at her dog to get Nymeria to run away? The hound had to "throw rocks" at Arya :(She literally says those words. Nothing is implied.

It's a literal, watchable conversation between Brienne and Sansa.If they could remember the 2 nobodies the Hound stole from and essentially killed 3 seasons ago I would be *very* surprised if they glance over this two good legsThey post here after every episode. www.reddit.com/user/ChrysWatchesGOT/Submitted

Go through a few of the episodes. Hands down the best thing about Game of Thrones coming back.I forgot about the blood magic and never even considered it that with the Magei and the Khals. Thanks!Or Stannis left a garrison that abandoned the castle when they got word that Stannis was dead instead of waiting to get attacked.Thank you ! Perfectly said.I'm pretty sure Jaime said that Stannis left it emptyI think he genuinely believed in the god he was fighting for. Otherwise he wouldn't have left dragonstone or burned his daughter.Isn't LSH a firewght?
Why wouldn't her wounds 'heal' in this case?
Or is it early days yet in her recovery?

I'm curious as to why people say Jon was resurrected when he was converted into a fire wight, or have I missed something here.If Jon Snow can renounce being Lord Commander, I guess Jamie can renounce his shitThe scene where she locked all the Khals in the Dosh Khaleen and burned the place down with them in it. I get PMS like that too.> but Dany (probably) had a period recently

[Uh ....](http://imgur.com/qMKXZKh)I think that was meant to be a miscarriage, but it was left unclear so we don't really knowSister???Wouldn't Sansa be his cousin now? Not like that would make it that much easierF U L L A E G O NCannister Lannister Or in the Winterfell crypts !!He did spend a lot of time down there alone... Jon Hawthorne?Not really. Dondarrion is a house of the Stormlands and Thoros is a foreigner. The Ned sent them from King's Landing on Robert's authority, not from North on his own authority as Warden.RELEASE THE UN-KRAKENIn fact they were commanded by eddard stark last. Jon has been in a forgiving mood, so it might be no big deal for them.He's with Varys. I'm sure he knows.But won't bran get his gimpy ass dragged down to winterfell and screaming R+L=J the whole way? And doesn't that mean that Jon's got a better claim to the Iron Throne than Dany? Just venturing a guess, but Sansa may be off marriage altogether. Yeah,  but the consummating is what really mattersBecause in the books Tyrion is a horrible drunk obsessed with his last girlfriend who he murdered in cold blood?Because neither character is at all suited for each other, among other things.  The point of their marriage is how incompatible they are.I'd ride him as if he were a glorious Shetland pony sent to mount the world. Or whatever. True. Book Tyrion has half his nose cut off from the Blackwater and one green eye and one black, but I imagine that would be pretty inconvenient for show purposes..and richest, once the twins go down in flamesBest is an exaggeration, he did have a bard killed and made into stew. I love Tyrion but he's got some Tywin in there too but who in Westeros is truly pure? Everyone's fucked in some way.TripodI don't remember posting this. It depends on what they are basing making him King in the North on.  If it is based on him being a descendant of Robb or Torrhen, then Bran would come before him.

But if they just declared him king based on personal accomplishments (like having risen from the dead to liberate the north from a tyrant and unite them to survive the impending apocalypse), which I think is more accurate, then he is king regardless of his parentage.  But he would not be Lord of Winterfell, even if he wasn't a bastard. All of Ned's children would be given a chance before any of Lyanna's children.Bran is also half Tully, while Jon is half Targaryen.Sansa would only be in line if there were no eligible male heirs. Houses Mormont and Karstark have no remaining male heirs, so they pass to the eldest female. Castle Black is the property of the Night's Watch,  and they take no part in the governance of the kingdoms. Winterfell has been the traditional seat of the kings in the North.In the event that they married,  Jon would be the rightful king of the Seven kingdoms,  but still not the Lord of Winterfell. Only Aegon had one more than one accepted marriage. His son got told to fuck off when he tried.The show really wants Jon as badass warrior King in the North. There's nothing wrong with that. Bran will either do something to validate that (like with Theon and Yara), or it might just be completely glossed over (like Sansa and Jon).

It doesn't make sense according to the book's rules of succession, but it works in service of the show's goals.Without disagreeing with your conclusion, there are plenty of lords or heirs-apparent in Westeros that cannot fight as lord (Doran Martell, Wyman Manderly, Willas Tyrell, Walder Frey, etc.).Oh, you should have just said so :PI want the hound to die in the only way that would do him justice. 

CLEGANEBOWL 

GETHYPE.  
GETHYPE.  
GETHYPE.  inb4 no Cleganbowl but Tyrion and the Hound fight for Sansa's handTrue but very very different.  I suppose he would make her feel safe...Then kings landing has his seat. HAR! yeah kinda like that, but you've gotta admit they aren't *totally* parallel situations. one is bran doing some crazy ass cross-universe temporal mind-fuckery, which we don't even fully understand..... the other one is him simply *saying*, "yo, dad."Legal in westeros anyway."Well that's good, because clearly you won't be."Reading Sansa's diary would get me up."I can get up."Jamie (somehow also there): "Your legs or your penis."

Bran: "Yes."On the other hand the entire King's Landing scenes happened earlier than the rest of the scenes in season 6. As seen by Varys in the finale. So it is possible that the Wildfire explosion already happened by the time Bran had his vision.Wait, really? Specifically, where does he see into the future?So here's a quirk about that then. If he can see the future, and people think him passing the wall brings it down, wouldn't he know this? That means either he's a fool, he knows and realizes things will end up ok, or that it doesn't mean the wall will fall due to his passage.LOL, fuck I'm getting old. That's why people rewatch things I guess.

Thanks bro...Thanks!
Even if Jaime didn't...is it really that hard to think that Stannis left it completely abandoned, taking everyone north with him. He was under the asumption that he was chosen to bring down the WW and save the realm....it's not like he planned to return there. 

My 'disbelief' is that it remained empty for that time...which can quickly be explained away with everyone was too busy with political intrigue...or dying from said intrigue..to notice. Jon did technically die (for an off season)...hence his watch  had technically ended and his oath fulfilled, no?  has Jamie fulfilled his?  is it lifelong like Lord Commander?  I remember Tywin talking as if it was.  Jon died though. Those vows were until death. Jaime was dismissed as the commander of the king's guard, so he could probably just take back his lands now I would think. > Some of the stalks felt wet. Had it rained again? She sat up, afraid that she had soiled herself as she slept. When she brought her fingers to her face, she could smell the blood on them. Am I dying? Then she saw the pale crescent moon, floating high above the grass, and it came to her that this was no more than her moon blood.It will definitely be *harder*Cousin relationships aren't that uncommon or frowned upon in Westeros (take Tywin and Joanna for example), but the fact that Jon and Sansa grew up believing they were half-siblings might make it kind of awkward for them to get it on.

However, Sansa is a redhead, and we know how much Jon likes girls who are kissed by fire...Yeah you're right.Never go full Aegon. I once had sex with a wildling in a cave.Especially if he finds out Sandor basically kept Arya alive for so long before she knew how to do it herself. Still a bastardWas it cold blood? I've only read through the books once and seen the show several times. Seemed pretty hot blooded in the show.Some marriages work better that way.

edit: And while the king made them get married he did so thinking that Tyrion was nothing but a stunted joke and that Sansa was a stupid traitorous girl. The marriage was SUPPOSED to be a sham, but they are actually well suited, I think.Freys are already dead, matey.wtf? when? I dont remember this at allForgot about that. Still better towards women and innocents than most in that world.He is king by acclimation.

You can be king by three ways

* By conquest (your army conqurers the land and as leader of your army you declare yourself king) - start a new​ dynasty
* By inheritance (someone died and you are next in line and the policital system and the armies are tied to the line of inheritance so you become king now) - continue a dynasty
* By acclimation (all the nobels declare you king and thus swear loyalty to you and now you control the houses and armies threw that loyalty) - start a new dynasty

In all three cases you control the armies which allows you to collect taxes and enforce laws.

Aegon 300 years ago did his by conquest, the Mad King by inhertance, Robert started a new dynasty by right of conquest. His 'children' by inheritance. Rob by acclimation, Grey Joys by rebellion which is a subset of by conquest, and the other Baratheons tried by conquest (even though Stanis was the true heir) but failed. Danny lost hers by inhertance, and is now trying to rrclaim by Conquest. Cersei is sort of a strange mix of all three. She destroyed her enimies, is sort of the inheriter by her sons, and confirmed by acclimation in the coronation for well three kingdoms at best.  Inhertance only matters if there is a system in place to enforce it. Like loyalty claims to the line/house and not individuals that are honored (along with ther banner men). But if those loyalty claims are not honored or not powerful  enough to keep the throne then inheritance doesn't really matter.

Jon got his crown by acclimation which ignores the old line and starts a new dynasty. Sansa is lady of the house of stark and Bran would usurp her as head of house stark but Jon is the ruler of the North and not the house of stark. Which is odd but the way it is. Jon is technically the head of a branch house of house Stark (the Snowstarks if you will). And by acclimation Jon is king which means the branch house is now the ruling house and the original house is a subservient house.  Jon could have claimed title of Jon Stark and assumed leadership of House Stark as well but he chose not to. I assume his heir is Sansa so if he fell in battle (and wasn't resurrect) then Sansa woyld become queen and leader of her house. Bran would become the heir of northern crown and leader of the subservient main branch of house stark but my guess is he will abdicate his role (maybe take the black).

*Jon may consider that he left the Nights Watch when he died and thus doesn't fill like he is bound to his oaths, I think Ed is currently Lord Commander - who actually succeeded Alastair who had a very short reign*

Jon is also probably the rightful heir of the iron throne via inheritance from Aegon the Conqurer. But the only person who might acknowledge that is Dany, but as she is planning to claim the chair by right of conquest, so none of that matters. Or rather it matters exactly as much as Dany wants it (or not) to matter.

The commoners and other nobels (high and lesser houses) probably will just bend the knee to who ever has the most powerful armies align to them at the end.http://i.imgur.com/6ugiqz3.gifvHmm. 

Targs are crazy, but Tullys ads flat out retarded. 

I'd go with Targ. Thank you!Oh, I'm not making that claim. Winterfell is Bran's unless he dies or forgoes the title.Sansa and jon Jon isn't glossed over. Sansa doesn't declare her claim because thats what Lf wants and she knows better than to play into Lf's hands, but as we can tell in 7x1 she is bitter about it.Yea but can Bran even have children?Just like your lordship becomes a secondary title when you become king, becoming the time-seeing bird-tree-cripple is probably more important than ruling Winterfell.whynotboth.jpgThe Hound is also super into her, and I can much more see her going for the guy who protected her from Joffrey AND can kill all of the enemy cunts.If the Ned bowed to Bob... you know what? sure! KL!But both are him directly affecting the pastSansas diary would be depressing as fuck...

Watched my father die. Got married against my will. Had to flee with Shady McShadypants. Got married against my will AGAIN. Was raped by a psychopath while a castrated traitor watched and cried. I hate my life.Oh, huh. True.Wait... Him passing the wall brings it down? How? Why?The way I saw this: Bran knows he will break down the Wall. But does he (more or less) sacrifice himself and not give warning or explanation to the people South? Or does he go down there and give everyone a fair shot at the knowledge he possesses to help stop them? The Wall wont stand whether Bran crosses it or not, the wights will climb it and overrun the NW either way. The Wall will slow down the inevitable. Remember, he's not actually ready to be the three eyed Raven yet. So here doesn't know everything. I immediately assumed cercei would be responsible for the walls collapse at eastwatch either with wildfire or some shit that crazy greyjoy's going to pull, speaking of which is he going to try to kidnap tyrion, get the dragon binding horn, as noted tear down the wall to allow the north to fall by the dead or what to give this most beautiful woman a priceless gift?he might know the wall will fall but not know any other way to get to jon or whatever he's trying to doBran is the Night King, he was stuck in his body when he warged to it and then they made the guy the night king and he was stuck. Bran is the whole problem. 

Bet.Sorry I feel like ive forgotten a plot point, why do people/he think that him passing the wall brings it down?did he SEE the wall coming down? When?Honestly, if that's what makes the wall come down, I'd be really upset. It would seem so trivial.

Think about it. That would mean if Jaime had just finished Bran off back in Episode 1, the realm would be safe.I'm only through CoK in my reading of the books, but his visions of the future aren't so clear cut. I don't know if they're clearer after the Bloodraven gives him paste to eat, but for instance, the Grey Joy invasion was literally an ocean surrounding Winterfell in his vision. Which would be nonsensical to proclaim to people. If they haven't improved that much, the Future may not be the easiest thing to nail down perfectly.Maybe he just really really wants to die.Just because he can see all outcomes doesn't mean he actually looked.He *can* see the future, but he *hasn't* seen every possible outcome of every action and decision he takes.Having the capability to see the future != actually seeing the consequences of all of your actions

The kid isn't ~~omnipresent~~ omniscient.No worries, I literally watched that episode last week or I would have forgotten about it too.Any pirate or squatter would have immediately shat themselves when they saw dany's fleet and dragons and would have ran. 

The Lannisters had no reason to take it and i doubt they could spair the men, and they didn't have the ships needed to hold it in the first place. 

Jamie knew it was Dany's first stop there was no way in hell you are holding dragonstone against a fleet a superior army and three dragons when you don't even have a fleet yourself. Atlest not without having the garrison being completely butchered. At this point the lannisters cant afford to throw away men.

What is this? Was this in a chapter from TWOW?I mean: "How do you expect that to be in the show?" I don't know where you're from but that's super unlikely to fly in the US.If Sansa and Danny are your cousin and aunt, ALWAYS go full Aegon.WITH A BOX OF SCRAPSMaybe.Okay, fair enough. The point is that Tyrion is a completely different character.Tywin made them get married. The marriage was to get a Lannister claim on the North. Did we read the same book? What sham are you talking about?the lannister twins..Symon Silvertongue in ASOS. I don't think it happened in the show.Oh I definitely agree, it'd be nice if they did end up together, poetic.> But the only person who might acknowledge that is Dany

Why would Dany know?  She wasn't even born yet when that all happened.  Howland Reed is the only person that likely knows.  And maybe some nurses or attendants that were there.  I was hoping this would be an edited ASOIAF-themed version.You forgot about the lemoncakes though. I think they were likely coming, either way. They could very well pass through a frozen sea, as well. 2meirl4meirlOr, alternatively, "the ink is dry" and he knows what path to follow even if it means The Wall comes down, etc. That's the danger of playing around with time in stories - it raises complex questions about character agency that, because the writer is messing with time, have to be addressed for the narrative to work. He can see the river of time. He can't change where the river has flowed through, but he can guide where it is going to go. Like an autoscroller in a Mario Level. 

Difficult to see, always in motion the future is So he can see A future, but not necessarily THE future?It seems like "hey, the wall came down and there was a huge war against the dead" might show up in most visions of the future. He wouldn't have to see every possible outcome. He's no Paul Atreides.[deleted]Nope, from ADWD, around the "the more she drank the more she shat".What, period blood? They did it once before... lol hbo don't careWell someone's gotta take over now that the Freys have been cleared out.I read the books but I think that part was way too subtle for me. She doesn't know, but if someone told her about it she is the only person with the power and possibly inclination to care.Yeah, but wouldn't his recent experience already tell him this would happen? It's not like the Children didn't guard against the dead. Yeah, but wouldn't his recent experience already tell him this would happen? It's not like the Children didn't guard against the dead. But the wall coming down may seem an inevitability in those visions rather than merely a consequence of the current plan.I agree with you there. Sandor can see EbtS blowing up and the dead marching through, that seems like a major event that will effect every future scenario that Bran sees.

The fact that Bran does not see its consequences tells me (barring shitty writing or plot devices) that what Sandor sees is a fluid timeline, and can be stopped - and will be stopped, and thus doesn't interfere with Bran's future visions. 

Alternatively, once Bran does cross the wall (which he has), his future visions **now** become contaminated with the effects of Others crossing the wall.Damn Muad'Dib impersonators.Omnipotent is also the wrong word. That would mean he has the power to do anything.

I meant omniscient.Maybe Edmure will find his balls..Tyrion just casually tells Bronn to kill him. I do believe it was just a brief conversation, easy to overlook IIRC.> EbtS 

The what?

Sometimes in fiction the person seeing the future knows the devastation their actions will cause, but take those actions anyway.  Sometimes it's a tragic thing (greek myth).  Sometimes it's because they're trapped in a loop they're trying to break, but keep end up fulfilling the past/future (Raistlin in Dragonlance).  

Sometimes, they know that despite the devastation they cause, "it'll all work out okay in the end."  Certainly better than everything north of the wall turning into a zombie, and everything south getting destroyed in civil warfare.  Especially if there's an if-else component to the vision.  Sandor is seeing what the Lord of Light shows him. Bran sees through the Old Gods. Either could have an agenda. OR ... Bran (or someone else) is enabling Sandor to see what he sees in the fire in order to get him to do xyz even though what he showed Sandor may never actually happen.

Ever hear of a palantir?> does not see its consequences

I don't think Bran is omniscient. And I think he's a lot less capable of handling his abilities than Bloodraven was. At this point, I wouldn't be surprised if he only sees parts of the future that may pass by accident.But we know from the Hodor thing that the timeline is set, so even before Bran made the choice to pass through the wall, any vision that Bran has of the future must have him passing through the wall no?Bran can suck Muad'dick.I'm sure Tyrion dwells in it afterwards more than once in Dance.Eastwatch by the SeaYeah it reminds me of this thing called a glass candle....Or it could be that a Dune situation, where Muad'Dib sees the bloody Jihad coming, but every alternative is worse.We could be playing with Bioshock Infinite rules, ie. constants and variables (but in a timelines sense, not a parallel realities sense). So, Bran might *always* Warg into Hodor in the past and create that time paradox, but other things could be different in different interations of the timeline.

But it's likely that we'll never know the exact rules of Bran's interference with timelines, nor do I think we are intended to.There have been camoes since season 3 or so I think

A guy from coldplay, sigur ros, of monsters and men and now Ed.Sorry to be a prick but it's "guest cameos" not "guess". 

I do agree though that cameos shouldn't be done just for the sake of it. I don't mind it if it's an actor as much but even at that it's a bit pointless unless the character is important.

Ian McShane is a good example of one I was fine with because he's an amazing actor and the character was important not just shoehorned in.I didn't even know how Ed sheeran looked so I didn't recognize him and thought damn that actor can sing really well!

Thought the scene was goodI've preferred the "cameos" of musicians as white walkers, you can't really recognize them so it doesn't take you out of the show. He was really out of place IMO.  They should have given him a wig or something, but that crop of shiny well kept ginger hair just didn't fit.  Almost like he had a gig to do after filming so couldn't get too messed up.

That whole scene felt really contrived, but that's the way it was written.  



It was immersion breaking. He did not really look out of place and the scene wasn't bad, but knowing who he is really takes someone out of that scene anyway.You are correct. Wrote this up on my phone while in break. Mobile can be unpredictable sometimes. 

I agree completely with what you said. I heard Conner McGregor makes a cameo this season as well. Not sure if that's true or not. I've stayed away from any websites that had any leaks the last year. 

I hope this isn't true and hope D&D keeps it as pure as possible without too many guest actors just for the sake of it. Yeah, took me right out of it as soon as I heard his voice. It looks like Sam and Jorah storylines are just there to burn through some screentime. Why should we care about Jorah's greyscale in the middle of all this going on and seriously won't Sam learn anything else other than what he had already known (Dragonstone has dragonglass) in Oldtown?Jorah knows what happened to his father. Tyrion told him while they were sailing to meet Danny.tyrion doesn't know a fuck ton of stuff, like who has longclaw, what they are doing up north, etc.Yeah but Jeor Mormont specifically told Sam to tell Jorah that he forgives him. Right, I just meant Sam was there and he could tell him what his dad said. Do you remember what Jeor told Sam to tell him?Not in the TV Show though.  Sam flees at the first sign of trouble, Mormont dies choking on his own blood.True! Totally forgot about that. In the TV Show, Mormont is stabbed in the back by a mutineer.  Grenn is enraged and starts a brawl.  Sam runs outside to find Gilly and get her away from the Keep.  Mormont and Sam do not speak before or during the mutinee.You're right. I think I must have been visualizing the book or something. Sounds right. It would be better for Arya to go back to Winterfell and help her siblings rather than go and kill Cercei. She's terrible at ruling and it's better to let her make her mistakes.

But I don't know how the show could portray Arya remembering those exact words that Ned told her without doing flashbacks. Without her remembering that it wouldn't make much sense for her to turn around.The fact that in one of the trailers for season 7 Sansa says those exact words from Ned's quote makes me think this might just happen.Solid reasoning.  You may well be right.The wolf pack eats Ed Sheeren and his boy band.  Then Area understands.

(Not that I disliked his appearance in the show.)I want to be fair and rational, but I desperately want satisfying Arya-reunions involving Nymeria and Jon Snow. Sansa is going to have a field day when they all reunite.

Jon: "Sansa, now that we're all here, I have to tell you something. I died at Castle Black. I don't know how and I don't know why, but I was brought back to life by some fire magic. I feel I've lost a part of myself as well."

Arya: "Sansa, you haven't been doing so well? Give me a name, I'll take care of it. What I mean? I met some interesting... teachers at Braavos. I fought with a staff, got blind, got stabbed, was stabbing, used poison, the usual. (Oh speaking of poison, I wore Walder Frey's face, pretended to be him for a week and avenged our family by killing off an entire House by myself. Also I met Ed Sheeran)."

Bran: "..." White eyes turns back to his normal eye color and he briefly stares silently at Sansa. "You were promised safety with the Boltons. You returned to Winterfell. You experienced everything but safety. You've seen how black a person's heart can be. How black it can be in all of us." *ominous music*


Sansa: "Gods, my family are freaks."



...

...

Bran: "By the way Jon, you're adopted."Maisie Williams was in Banff this past winter for some filming with wolves so yes I'd say good chance of a reunion.

http://globalnews.ca/news/3277145/game-of-thrones-was-in-banff-to-film-some-scenes-with-wolves/
Doesn't matter, Ghost is the shit.The idea that she should go north has already been planted with the  soldiers. The group talked about how all they wanted to do was leave when they were at home but now all they want to do is go back home with their families, how King's Landing sucks, and (paraphrasing from memory) "My mom told me to be kind to others and they'll be kind to you" made Arya start thinking about what she should be doing.A lot of comments here are arguing the other way -- that her list is too important to her, so she wouldn't change her mind regarding heading south to kill Cersei. Perhaps you're both right , though. This may take a few episodes to play out, but it could easily be that Jon heads south to Dragonstone to meet Dany. Dany then heads to King's Landing, potentially with Jon in tow. (Sansa and maybe even Bran could come along, too, though I doubt that since there must always be a Stark in Winterfell.) Arya could end up crossing paths with Jon in KL, either before, during, or after the battle (or whatever event replaces a battle, such as Jaime helping Tyrion to take the city without bloodshed). 

I don't know whether it's more likely that Jaime kills Cersei to fulfill the Valonquor prophecy or Arya kills Cersei to satisfy her revenge list, but regardless I think a meeting of Arya and Jon in KL is pretty plausible. This could happen whether Arya knows he is headed there or not, though the latter seems much more likely (unless she hears something while in a disguise).  

Overall, I really like how you see the over-arching theme of Ned's words ringing true. The pieces are in place for them all to finally reunite, and it makes sense that they should see the importance and that it should happen right as winter truly hits hardest. Araya will probably have someone else's face and garb on and nymeria will smell that it's Araya. I think the little lannister group Arya met will get suprised and overrun by Nymerias pack, sparing Aryas live in the last moment as Nymeria begins to recognize her, but what a cruel end for Ed Sheeran :P I am not sure about the change of plans tho, Aryas list is more important to her than her family in Winterfell. I've been thinking the same thing. It makes sense from a practical standpoint as well, as direwolf cgi is very expensive. This way we get the reunion we all want, and Nymeria gets to stay alive without eating too much of the budget. 

If they reunite and stay together, I'm certain that means death for either Nymeria or Ghost this season. And much as I love Nymeria, I love Ghost more. Although he'll probably die anyway. Yeah but in the book she is still connected to Nymeria. She wargs into the direwolf in her dreams.I had a thought when I noticed Arya spared the Frey women.

We know from the books that Nymeria ran off and is now a leader of a large wolf pack.

What if Arya is destined to create some kind of all-female warrior collective (amazons)? Maybe a branch of the Faceless Men which operate exclusively in Westeros?

I'm most likely not the first to throw this out there, but it would fit with the narrative that all the dire wolves lives/deaths are a foreshadowing of their owner's.I think Nymeria is going to rescue Arya  once the Lannister men attack/try to rape Arya. After the interaction,  she would no longer trust individuals and set out on a killing spree. Basically,  she would take the place if Lady Stoneheart and cause  havoc in the RiverlandsWhat if nymeria and her wolf pack attack arya and the band of nice lannister blokes, killing them but sparing arya. Which somehow sets her on her journey home instead of to kings landing, due to the whole lone wolf in winter quote.Forget that noise! 

[Cold open] First person view low to the ground. The color is a little off, but seems familiar to to viewer. Pan left and you see something else breathing low to the ground too. Pan more and a wolf is revealed. Camera looks forward again, then zooms out to reveal Nymeria. The pack is sneaking up on some men with lions on their armor. The men are pointing towards a pair next to a camp fire and rubbing their hands. Camera then jumps to Arya's face; laying on her side with eyes closed. Her eyes open and reveal the colorness of worging. The color come back to her eyes, her loose hand on needle turns into a firm grip.

[Moments later] Arya is cleaning her sword, she turns to a very frightened boy in the same armor as the lifeless bodies on the ground around them and says, "~~The pack is stronger than the pride.~~ The north remembers. And thanks for the wine."[deleted]See, I'm hoping for one of those videos where the person returns from war and the dog is so excited to see them after months of being away. Granted, my parent's dog will react the same way if you leave the house for 15 minutes.  Nymeria will save Arya when Ed Sheeran tries to kill herMy take is there might be a reunion with Nymeria. I don't know if anything comes of it, maybe Nymeria joins Arya, maybe? Either that or it's as everyone says and she helps push Arya north than south. 


But there's a scene from the trailers of Arya in an inn with a surprised look about it. My guess is she'll either run into the BwoB+Hound or Red Priestess Mel or maybe both? BwoB is in the river lands going north, Mel is coming south. Could be an interesting scene, one I assumed we'd have before the premier of the S6E02 trailer. 

Encountering Nymeria could be big for Arya's character. There was always an almost magical bond between the Starks and their wolves. But the whole *Lone wild won't survive winter* thing could be all the reunion will be for. I agree that there will definitely be an upcoming Arya/Nymeria reunion and it wont be all sunshine and rainbows.  I think either some of the wolf pack attack  Arya before Nymeria recognizes her or Arya protects Nymeria from Lannister soldiers, outing herself as a Stark and getting herself gravely wounded in the process.

Either way Nymeria goes off to find help and comes across Sandor/Beric a bit to the East near the Vale.  Sandor recognizes Nymeria, Nymeria leads Sandor and co to Arya's corpse, and (to rehash my theory from a previous thread) Beric sacrifices himself to bring Arya Stoneheart back to life.

This makes the line from S7E1 "if the gods were just, you [Beric] would be dead and this little girl would be alive" perfect foreshadowing.

Also allows Sandor and Arya to get back together but with their roles reversed: Sandor is now virtuous and Arya is the merciless murderous monster.

EDIT: I'm almost definitely wrong.  This is what I get for avoiding the trailer.[deleted]My guess is that the wolf we saw was one of the pack, rather than Nymeria, and we'll get a reunion where Nymeria appears, recognises her, and sees off the other wolves who are being aggressive. 

I doubt they spend much time together after that, given the budget required for  a pack of CGI wolves, but it will make her think that Nymeria survived because she found a pack, and Arya will realise she needs one too.I think Nymeria won't recognise her anymore as she's supposedly become an OP assassin called No One. Arya has to escape, and the show runners free up some more CGI budget, as they won't have to show her again. Arya wearing Jaime's face kills Cersei....

Because Jaime can't strangle anyone with his prosthetic hand.I guess I feel like despite the cost the wolves will be present for the epic whitewalker showdown. Old magic and all that. Yea I see it being more along those lines. Maybe she is in danger and her sixth sense goes off calling Nymeria to her rescue. She might recognize that Nymeria has her own pack and they part ways. I see Arya dying by the end of the story and this is the fork in the road that sends her down that path by continueing alone. Eh I think that would take away from last weeks scene, the whole point is that not all soldiers are monsters most of them are just guys dragged into some lords war.

On top of that the Stoneheart thing doesn't really add anything it would be a shitty ending to Aryas arc.Accept then the whole pack would die, undermining the moral.Every stark child has a direwolf... Nobody has forgotten that. Hell we saw 2 of them die last season, thier not a distant memory.We know there is definitely a wolf in the next episode... it's right there in the trailer. So they're "wasting" some budget on them. Plus it's easy enough to remind the audience of the "distant memory" through the "previously on GoT..." segment at the start. Yeah, but did you abandoned that dog and throw rocks at it?Nymeria will bite Ed's legs, then run to Ayra. 

Ed will attempt to crawl away. 

Arya will get up and draw Needle. 

*background music*

"*when your legs don't work like they use to before....*"


Hopefully he will not return to the show.

He's served his purpose as click-bait for various media outlets.Ed Sheeran is nymeria.Weirdly enough if they made Sheeran's character a scumbag that dies in a horrible way I'd feel oddly more okay with his appearance in the show. As it stands he was just kind of an out of place background characterIndeed, not many know that, but initially they hoped to cast Shia LaBeouf for the role. They even had [the sound track ready](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o0u4M6vppCI).Could be the Red Priestess considering the whole ''We'll meet again'' thing from S3Yo, I like this. But that doesn't track with the shot from the trailer of Beric north of the wall with his flaming sword.I like this idea but I don't think it'll play out that way.  I think the scene of Arya dining with the Lannister soldiers and remembering that good men can be sent off to fight unjust wars we've had the first turning point for Arya's character.  If she had killed them anyway, it would a Lady Stoneheart style move.  But she didn't, she ate their meat and drank their mead and heard about their families and their desires, much like Ned Stark would have done.  She's making a return to her Stark roots.

I think when she sees Nymeria (which will prly be a quick, *Remember who you are, Simba* type moment before Nymeria vanishes for good due to CGI costs), it will convince her to head North to reunite with her family.  She will have more choices to make in the future between vengeance and Stark-ness, but we'll see what those are when they come.  I don't see Arya being resurrected, it just doesn't seem to fit with the choices they've laid out for her. 
That's perfect. Way too good for the show. Beric won't die like that, don't forget the season trailer scene with the flaming sword, he'll go and fight beyond the Wall probably.ShowArya doesn't seem to give a fuck about Jon though
> What does Arya know about who is even at Winterfell? 

Maybe she'll find out and that will be what convinces her to go back.She knows the same way she heard the details of the red wedding. She heard about it through talk. She trained as a faceless man by listening to people's talk and finding out new things (see book chapters where she had to tell the faceless man what she learned each day). After being trained in that manner of information collection, I don't doubt she would have heard of the battle of the bastards by now. > What does Ayra know who is even at Winterfell? 

Well, she's been posing as Walder Frey for a couple days, maybe a week tops. I assume it takes a while to arrange a feast for every Frey. Its entirety possible that she (disguised as Walder) got a Raven explaining whats happening in the North. 

That said, that's lazy writing just to assume that's happened. I don't think HBO is too stingy about the GoT budget right now. I think they could afford a CGI Ed Sheeran if they wanted to.The CGI has struck again!They have the stark connection, just like Jon and Ghost, Bran and Summer, Rob and Grey Wind, etc. and she still has wolf dreams, so we know the connection is there, even thousand of miles away. So yeah, I totally agree with your suggestion- Nymeria knows her and will save her from harm. >My guess is that the wolf we saw was one of the pack, rather than Nymeria, and we'll get a reunion where Nymeria appears, recognises her, and sees off the other wolves who are being aggressive.

Thats what I was thinking, plus that wolf seems too small to be a Direpupper.She said she was Arya Stark right before opening up Walder Frey's throat. I would hate to see Jaime die (I really want to see where his ark goes), but this makes sense. I just hope he dies a decent death.Last question/answer [here](http://www.makinggameofthrones.com/production-diary/ed-sheeran-on-set) confirms that.Nymeria knew why Arya did it. They can sense each others emotions to an extentI put on my coat and went to work. That's about the same for my dog.Do you even white fang, bro?omg. i wish i could upvote infinitely. ahahahhaha lmaoHe probably won't be coming back. The soldiers are patrolling the Riverlands, while Arya is heading towards King's Landing, so they'll probably go separate ways.I kind of liked how they humanized the Lannister soldiers, and hearing Symon's song for Shae sung by Ed Sheeran was amazing."It's a new one"He is the weirdest fucking guy.Maybe that's how she'll find out about the state of affairs in Winterfell and then coupled with her seeing Nymeria with a wolfpack and meeting those Lannister soldiers, she'll decide to head home.It also doesn't make a ton of sense to keep Nymeria around because unlike the other dire wolves she hasn't been trained like they were. There was obviously some training in season one but she was still a pup when Arya chased her off. So she's basically a wild dire wolf at this point. I could be wrong, but my theory is that the scene takes place south of the wall, after the army of the dead makes it through. Its 10 days, he/she says in the episode. 

Something like "10 days since the last feast"[deleted]No, but there is still a budget to take into consideration. They might introduce the wolf pack now, but save further appearances for later on, when things are really kicking off.Yeah, there is definitely more of a connection there than just memory. Although I'm not sure how much the show will go into that, I can't recall them doing much regarding Arya's wolf dreams.Yeah but so did Shaggy...> plus that wolf seems too small to be a Direpupper.

Well yeah, by now she's a Diredoggo.Yes her name is Arya Stark. I was speaking of the personality and psychological change the house of black and white has caused in her. In the show Jaqen tells her she has become no one, she then re-affirms she's Arya Stark and she's leaving. Jaqen wasn't simply saying your name is no one, becoming a faceless man involves shedding away all that you are to serve the faceless god. She's not the same girl she once was, I think Nymeria would sense that. I mean as of now it's kind of a pointless scene, but like many things in Game of Thrones I imagine that small interaction will have big consequences later in the season, always interesting to speculate what D&D have planned for these minor scenes since they do always manage to come around.

Except Gendry, he's just fuckin' rowing.I would have expected her to hear rumors of Jon being King in the North and Sansa being there with him by now. But not necessarily. I actually think that book Nymeria will reunite with Arya in a pretty heartfelt way, and Arya will warg into her and hunt down Ramsay.  But from a show perspective, Nymeria will be too expensive to continue to CGI and there's been no connection to Arya since S1.  In the books we know that Arya has her "wolf dreams" so the connection has been maintained and is really one of the things keeping Arya anchored to her Stark identity.   "...two feasts in a fortnight!" I disagree. Arya has spent quite a long time building her list, and quite some time learning how to kill everyone on it. That is her life's goal. Winter will greatly complicate killing Cersei before long - she has to do it now.

If she did hear that Rob and Sansa were home while Freying it up and still headed to Cersei it just doesn't seem plausible that she'd head right back North without killing her first. If anything Nymeria could be a great help to her when she meets Cersei.

She also knows that a battle is coming which means Cersei may me killed by someone else - I don't see Arya taking that risk.Arya knows how to listen, how to learn about her surroundings. If she can gain the required knowledge to infultrate the Twins then I'd be very surprised to hear she's not heard about the goings on up north. > If she had any idea both Jon and Sansa were at Winterfell, and Winterfell was safe again in Stark hands, she'd probably go back there straight away. 

I don't see how you can make this assumption, honestly. She seems so consumed by her desire to kill those on her list, I think she would continue her mission regardless of what's happening at Winterfell.Hence why I said it would be lazy writing. Its possible but it would just be awful. Cersei also represents a very real threat to her family, and it's possible that she'd want to off her first in order to ensure their lasting safety rather than head straight north even if she knew that the North was back in Stark hands. I could also see her not wanting to try and meet up with her family because every time she does said family seems to find itself murdered, but I doubt the show is going to explore that angle.But he said it wasn't himAt first I read Diredrogo. That would be pretty fearsome!What's a Diredoggo?I sort of agree, I think when Nymeria first sees Arya she won't recognize her as a Stark.  As Arya looks upon her wolf and feels more connected to her family and her Stark roots, I think Nymeria will recognize her and the threat will pass.  This will probably solidify with Arya deciding to return to Winterfell. I really don't buy it. Every task associated with being no-one that Jaqen gave Arya she failed. She killed people whom she wanted to kill and spared people she didn't. And then he just says that "hey, you are no one now"? WTF? It makes no sense. Unless being "no-one" doesn't actually mean that you have to forget all your past and be emotionless killing machine.  It's either that or Jaqen was scared shitless that Arya will kill him so he said what he though she wanted to hear.I think tying to the point of this discussion, that scene is going to be viewed looking back as a powerful turning point for Arya's character. She realized in that scene that not all Lannister men are evil, and this will help her realize (along with running into Nymeria) that she's headed in the wrong direction.Could be those Lannister soldiers pop up again and are killed horribly, like by a Dragon or something.Yeah, they stay connected in the books so it makes more sense. I don't see any way they kill Cersei this season at all, but if they do, I can't see it until the end of the season.

If I'm right, and I very well might be wrong, but if I am right then what would they have Arya doing all season? I think Arya will find her way home this season and Cersei will be a problem dealt with either in the last episode this season, or sometime next.[deleted]Its like a regular doggo, only dire. A grown up direpupper.Yeah, so far the serie is becoming more white/black morality where you see evil mustache and edgy berserk villains with the good heroes that had better than even Batman and Superman combined I thought for sure that was what the scene with her happening upon Ed and the Lannister soldiers was going to address, but instead it just made her a bit sympathetic to the common man's plight I guessI'm cryingWhat's a direpupper?upvotes all aroundA baby Diredoggo.[removed]All this misdirected outrage. People should be more upset that none of the important characters wear helmets. Ever. Even the fucking Hound doesn't wear his helmet. Her house actually participated in the battle of the bastards while most of the others sat on the sidelines. They probably hate being lectured about it , but at the same time they know they deserve it. Their shame for not helping Jon was probably one of the main reasons why they crowned him Downvotes but I agree...it was cool in the books and initially in the show with the "Bear Island knows no king but the KiTN who's name is Stark" line but it's getting out of hand. D&D made all the other Northern Lords look like pussies, first with all of them seemingly *forgetting* the Red Wedding and their loyalty to the Starks, and now with Lyanna lecturing them in every damn meeting. We could've had Alys Karstark have some cool lines about disowning her dead relatives and pledging her loyalty to Jon (kinda like in the books), but nope, gotta keep giving the 10 year old badass lines that make all the other Northern Lords look like little bitches (which tbf, they are in the show). Imagine how much more badass Manderly's speech from the books would've been last season...

And no, it's not sexist to be annoyed by watching what seems like the same scene over and over again...Jon argues for something, old Northern lord pussies out, then Lyanna shuts him up with some "badass" one-liners. C'mon, D&D...next thing you know she's gonna 1v1 a White Walker lolShe's like the Minions, too much of her could be damaging. I think Red Team Review put it best, it's almost as if she's a part of the checklist for the Winterfell scenes now, like every episode they have to get her to stand up and give a big empowering speech. Hopefully with Jon leaving Winterfell for most of the season her scenes will be cut down after the next episode.Less than 2 minutes of screen time. 2 fucking minutes and people are already on his train i think its hilarious u guys talk shit about lyanna mormont. u wouldnt say this shit to her at a meeting of the north, shes badass. not only that but she wears the freshest armour, eats at the chillest feasts and hangs out with the strongest bears. yall are pathetic lol.Those scenes in the north took place right after last season. Why would she change the way she acts in a matter of hours / days.Yup, every scene they feel the need to have "Le 10 year old badass girl totally burning the men xD". It's becoming boring now, we get itI do think that her schtick may begin to wear a bit thin this season.[removed]she was great in the first episode but since then it's just been overplayed. annoying. I love coming to this sub when new seasons start.  The fedora tipping and mouthbreathing directed at the most minuscule characters and plotholes is hilarious.[removed]Say that to her face. You won't. This isn't an average war. If people stay home, they will just get killed when the white walkers come anyway. A ten year old girl with a spear is better than nothing. 

And yes they are fine with it, because she is on the same level as the other Lords and Ladies. What? Are you saying you don't enjoy the Northern lords being set up as cowardly idiots all so they can be softballs for "muh sassy 10 year old queenindanorf" to show up? Any true fan of the North should be livid that they had ***Manderly*** being lectured by her for being a pussy and disloyal to the Starks. I guarantee this won't be the last time Jon's advisors are presented as bumbling idiots and he needs his hand held by Lyanna/Sansa. 


This is why the story potentially being completed by the show has me so worried. Not only do D+D let their biases bleed into characters, they completely bend to the fans, whatever they think will help ratings. What we're seeing now with Lyanna (And will keep seeing until she is dead) is the culmination of all the mouthbreathers hyping her up last season and the restructuring of the show after the Sansa rape controversy. Thank you for finally posting this <3True. What the Glovers do is their business... nobody cares what "Bear Island" (sounds like sassiest Daddy/Leather bar in the North) does.

I won't be surprised if one of these days she sasses Sansa and finds herself flying through the Moon Door. Can bears fly?[removed]Maybe she has a crush on the King of the NorthPlease make your points without insulting other users.
Thanks!Sad that a little girl stating that she doesn't need permission to defend the North alongside the other lords causes this much fuss.

Seriously, wtf?http://i.imgur.com/ZAuRZhw.jpgr/nba bleeding into r/asoiafBecause it is an empowering scene to women and he doesn't like that. Yeah I loved her in the books, but I hate how the show has memed her up.  Name-calling is a violation of our civility policy.  If you edit the last line, we can reapprove.I don't see where OP said anything that warranted this kind of hostile response. You're allowed to dislike minor characters and voice your dislike on a public forum without being a shit person. It's fiction, keep it there.Exactly what I came to say. A lot of people need to grow up and maybe go outside if a fucking TV show is getting you this worked up. It's strange how this subreddit can go from thoughtful discussion to "I'm no longer watching the show because it panders to liberals and feminists."I can't because no smart Medieval kid like her ever existed. She is unrealistic.I will, only thing she would do is cry at me.

I doubt she can even fight a normal modern world untrained person, let alone northern battle-hardened lords or wights.a 10 year old girl with a spear definitely isn't worse than nothing (unless that girl is somehow a trained assassin) Just remember Barristan's chapter in ADWD where he tells the kids to be cool with shitting themselves in battle AGAINST HUMANS since it happens to most first timers, imagine what would happen to 10 year olds in a battle AGAINST WIGHTS.She being a lady is no excuse for rude behavior toward the other big houses, even if she has a point.

In ADWD Wyman Manderly gets his throat slit and nearly killed for insulting house Frey.Dude, you know what happens when the mass of 10 years girls die? Their fathers, brothers and any other male soldier would have to kill the girls´s wight bodies.

You are literally giving the WWs a psychological weapon against the Northeners.

We already saw the WWs use kids to frighten their enemies, sending girls and also women to die is not "gender equality" is stupidity. There is a reason why it happened rarely if ever in history.>A ten year old girl with a spear is better than nothing.

Yeah seriously. It's not like the Whitewalkers have some means of converting the dead and using swarm tactics is the absolute worst possible strategy to use against them. We all know that, but why doesn't Sansa say it, why does the 10 year old annoying kid that the fans want have to say it ? Just so that the viewers are satisfied.

And no she isn't on the same level as the other lords and ladies, house Mormont is one of the poorest. And yes.I mean she showed up to fight and he didn't. So yeah she's earned that right. He's earned dick all. "He fought before!" Yeah well what have you done for me lately? I think its just painfully obvious we went from GRRM source material into writing in the same vein as other pop culture millenial TV shows. I could care less about the bias or the politics, but we've gone to where the plot holes aren't just conspicuous but are actively obstructing the story, suspension of disbelief is violated and a show that was built around subverting hackneyed fantasy tropes has completely embraced themwhat is D+D?> D+D

Ah, from 'D+D=T' fame! **D**an and **D**ave equals **T**rash! So, you are saying there is a chance she may actually die, you raise my hopes.I hope we see a return to form of pre-BotB Robett who just verbally tears her apart for constantly talking shit to lords who have successfully helmed the North since before she was born. Theres a -100% chance of this happening but the idea will at least give me solace after the next episode where we see Lyanna training a bunch of little girls who are better natural fighters than boys (shitlords) and she lectures them about equality.Dear people who downvoted me, learn that the downvote button is not an "unlike" button. It is used when something is factually wrong, not to express difference of opinion.Jesus Christ you'll stop watching the show because of one small line from a very minor character? She is hardly in the show.

And the Arya scene at the Twins was great. See no issues with the dialogue there.So how do you want it to end? These are important factors in the story. An evolution and growth of a society to treat children and women like they are worth something. To not withhold information that could save lives because you think you know better than everyone. To show that if you disrespect not only life but the people that you welcome into your own home you will deal with the consequences.

Personally it sounds to me like you just want a big strong man to cut open the Night King and save the day...well that's not what this story is about. This story is reflecting many things our own society is dealing with. And that's what a good story does. It mirrors us so we can take a hard long look at ourselves and see what's wrong and where we stand. 

You may disagree with me but as someone who has wanted to tell a story my whole life,  Martin has created a world where the meek will not inherit the earth, but the compassionate and the just will. A little message I'm picking up on with bias. 

Either way, you think it's unrealistic because it doesn't fit your "mould" of realism but it's not meant to fit the norm. The dead will destroy Westeros lest EVEN the children learn to fight and that's important. Arya may be doing terrible things but she may just suffer later for them. And Sam isn't looking for a cure...but it exists and that is important. One of the major reasons you don't watch is a minor character with maybe five minutes of total screentime?

Also, satisfying liberals and feminists? Holy shit, dude. If you're reading that much real-world politics into a very minor character, you probably need to chill out a bit. You have your views, that's fine. But you're looking for demons where there are none.In the Books the woman of Bear Island are very good fighters. They state the same in show. It makes perfect sense for her to say something like this. Granted I do not think the rest of the houses should have agreed so readily. The one person who did speak up, Lord Glover, is still ashamed of not fighting with Jon so once he caves no one else steps up. 

idk why one little girl would turn you off from such a good show. This is the 3rd time we've had to sit through all the other Northern lords being written as extremely cowardly/stupid so Lyanna could show them up. Its fucking annoying. >Women being empowered by Lyanna Mormont

Not even Septon Meribald could write something that sadZOMBIES I CAN DEAL WITH BUT HOW COULD A TEN YEAR OLD GIRL USE A BOW AND ARROWReally? Because I look through and see most comments deriding just the drop in writing and directing, and a pushed agenda that makes no sense in-universe and ruins the suspension of disbelief is just one reason among many, like the conspicuous cameo or plot holes you could fly a dragon through, characters who act irrationally or are incredibly poor adaptations of their book counterparts.

If I was brewing some fine blackberry wine, and along came a bear, a maiden fair, a harlequined fool and a troupe of feminists and they each took turns squatting down and pissing in my wine, I'd be upset. But I'm upset because there's piss in the wine, not because they're feminists.Funny how small scenes trigger all these manly men on what Lords should do. Dany starts the book series at 12 years old and she's telling dothraki what to do by the end of AGOT. Were they triggered then too? Probably never even bothered to read the books.[Joan of Arc](http://www.history.com/topics/saint-joan-of-arc)

> Joan of Arc, a peasant girl living in medieval France, believed that God had chosen her to lead France to victory in its long-running war with England. With no military training, Joan convinced the embattled crown prince Charles of Valois to allow her to lead a French army to the besieged city of Orléans, where it achieved a momentous victory over the English...

She's pretty famous. Are we still talking about the show with an army of the undead and 1000ft wall made of Ice?You've obviously never been to Bear Island. Imagine what would happen to adults against wights, they'd probably shit themselves too. House Frey is not a northern house. 

Northern lords see Lady Mormont as their equal, as she is the head of a house. She is free to express her opinion as any other Lord is. 

She's speaking the truth, any way.You don't mess with Freys yo.OP's argument is that they'll die either way.It's already a psychological weapon. It's an army of fucking dead people lmao. You can hack their arms off and they keep coming. 

This is an end of the world situation, you can't relate it to other times in history. They are coming at this problem with the thought in mind that there is basically no hope, so they have to literally do everything possible. So then let's hide them all away? They're going to die either way, might as well go out fighting.>but why doesn't Sansa say it,

She has no men or women to start training. 

>no she isn't on the same level as the other lords and ladies, house Mormont is one of the poorest.

From the wiki:

"House Mormont of Bear Island is an old, proud, and honorable house of the north,[1] one of the **principal families** sworn to House Stark."

It doesn't matter that they're poor. Dungeons + DragonsD.B Weiss and David Benioff, the showrunners of GoTWell, that storyline has been messed up since the last season, therefore every argument i bring up will be countered by the fact that she is a faceless man.I want the story to end with a grey man leading Westeros to beat the white walkers. And it is ironic that "a big strong man" is exactly what the show is building up for. If you're denying that the liberal/feminist outrage over Sansa's rape completely changed how they've handled female characters since, your head is pretty deep in the sand. liberals are not demons, neither are feminists, i love both. It is just a 10 year old women's rights activist that i find unrealistic.And yes, a woman fighting is alright, a feminist woman in a Medieval show is unrealistic enough, let alone a feminist little girl. Where did she go ? Oxford ? Harvard ? How did she become a women's rights activist at 10 years old ? It is fucking okay for a woman to do this, it is not okay for a little girl to speak angrily to lords higher than her. She would have been burned, flayed, burned again and then raped if it was real life (sorry for the extreme violence, but it is probably the brutal truth).How was Lord Glover cowardly? He was fine with Jon's decision, he just had some resistance to his granddaughter fighting, Lyanna took offence to that.
That's all that back and forth was, nothing more. 

That's not cowardly, you're definitely exaggerating.

A bow and arrow would be hard to use for a little girl actually. A dagger or a small sword would probably be better. Maybe a small spear would be ok too. I think you're seriously underestimating how hard it would be for a ten year old girl to use a bow and arrow effectively

By the way, it's really strange how so many people on an ASOIAF board don't have a fucking clue what reasonable suspension of disbelief is. How about a little girl benching 400 pounds? Or running a 4.2 40? This same sub heaps praise over GRRM for his "I write women like people because they're people" quote, but then we have whatever this post is complaining about realism. Glover didn't want his daughters to fight, makes sense, Mormont is a young girl and she's tough so she wants the other kids on her island to do what she can, makes sense. It's just like Arya wanting to learn to fight in the early seasons but few people here were wagging their fingers at Ned for being unrealistic by training his nine-year-old daughter on swordfighting. 

This sub has a history of focusing on the negatives of the show. There's a person here who doesn't even watch the show and they're complaining about last night's episode. The tears taste so gud.The Dothraki whom almost to a man abandoned her after Drogo died? Those ones? You mean the Khalasar where the vast majority of them abandon her as soon as Drogo's dead and they're taking orders from a Middle school girl? Yeah, great example. Significantly older than Lyanna Mormont, closer to Daenerys' book age. And she didn't end up very brightly, it appears.-Man who doesn't understand the basic concept of suspension of disbelief.Well, it is a fantasy show, so things are going to change a bit, but not human minds, humans are still the same thing.I´m talking about a teenage girl on the young end, not a Bear island Soldier.So, your argument is, if adults shit themselves, then children will shit themselves too ? No, children will just fall off and cry for their mothers. Let's agree that children are useless in either situation against an army of white walkers.That´s not the only option though.

If they win, then they save many girls lives if they don´t send them.

If the win and do send girls and also young boys to die, their population would suffer demographic problems in the long run even by winning.


If they lose that won´t matter.


You can see that the best case scenario is to not send weak people to fight and hope to win and avoid giving soldiers to the enemy. Even if they lose young people can flee south and try to save themselves.There is literally a scene in the show where a wildlinf sees a bunch of dead children wights, after killing a lot of other wights, and she freezes up and gets killed and turned into a wight herself

You do not know what you're talking about. You need to do everything possible to help, but using ineffective child soldiers and old women **will make survival harder**>It's already a psychological weapon. It's an army of fucking dead people lmao.

Like I said the SHOW ITSELF shows how dead kids work against even ""savage"" wildlings, so let´s not try to spin this and say fighting normal undead is the same as having recently dead girls with their face still intact fight against their fellow Northeners.It's pretty simple, you migrate the populous of the North to Southern regions. White Harbor and the Neck are some of the least destroyed areas in the North. You don't need to worry about food scarcity since all the food for the season has been harvested and stored already. You're either going to starve or you aren't at this point, moving won't change that. Should the White walkers push further south, you move further south too.


We've already seen how quickly wights can move. A child wight is more useful than a child soldier by an order of magnitude. Gender dimorphism doesn't seem like it'll be a problem for wights either. You'll be killing droves of people just for them to turn around and become better fighters for your enemies. And that's not even looking at the logistics of it. Even arming a completely unarmed force like this with spears and boiled leather would be a massive task, much less actually properly outfitting them.


The right call is to bring all the trained, equipped soldiers you have left and to try to punch through and kill the White Walkers. Fighting them with attrition and mass numbers only works to their strengths. It seems like Jon learned nothing watching an entire wildling village get resurrected which is why he's listening to Lyanna.


Jesus what a terrible strategy. It's pretty clear the writer's put 0 thought into how you would actually fight something like the White Walkers. 

Except this is not a fight of quantity but quality, because every soldier dead is a soldier for the enemy.

This is why I doubt sending young boys or old men is a good idea either, they should really send good trained and good equipped people that seldom die to avoid giving numbers to the enemy.> She has no men or women to start training.  
  
Could tell Jon to command his lords to do it.  
  
> From the wiki:
"House Mormont of Bear Island is an old, proud, and honorable house of the north,[1] one of the principal families sworn to House Stark."
It doesn't matter that they're poor.

Yes it does, i am poor, i have 63 men, that guy is rich, he has 1000 men, he is higher than me. I'm just curious what the argument is here. It's not like she physically fought all the Freys. Now that would have been ridiculous. She poisoned them. If your argument is a complaint about her gender I would argue that the role of an assassin is actually well suited to her. It's not about going toe to toe with people physically. She would lose. It's about deception and stealth. Hitting people with surprise attacks when they least expect it. You think the Iron born are going to save Westeros? Westeros will save itself in my opinion. And by that, I mean that everyone who realizes the actual threat on the land will band together and fight for a higher purpose. Every big strong man in the series has shown to have their heart tested. Jon (obviously is a big softy), Jamie (He's beginning to feel the repercussions of his deeds.), The Hound (He's become in tune with the moral side of himself and may even be a secret Fire Priest or at least seer). Point is that "big strong guys" can also have big strong hearts and that's what I believe this show is truly about. If the Whites are defeated with anger, hatred, evil or selfishness in the heart of their opponent (which I see a lot of in the current King of the Iron Islands) Then the victory will be empty and Westeros will fall back into the culture of decay and simple mindedness it has been in for so long. How does saying your fighters should be fighting make you a women's rights activist? Calm down and stop seeing agendas that aren't there, Lyanna was most likely bought back because she proved popular last year.Maybe since she was put in charge of Bear Island after her MOTHER died fighting for Stannis. She was put in a position of power at a very young age. Thats why she has such a "big set" on her. She wasn't a coward the others were. By northern standards she's higher than them. That wouldn't happen at all, Jon Snow supports her and by bloodline she's technically one of the most important people in the North, if anything tried to do anything like that to her Jon would hang them for treason and he'd have the full support of the other houses while doing so. It's the same reason no one dared openly speak against Joffery despite him talking down to his elders, it'd be treason.I doubt anyone would do that, but in real life they would probably send her to sleep or something, I mean she commands no respect and has no charm.Jon is the only Northerner higher than her. She is the head of House Mormont. Most of the other leading Northern houses either fought against Jon or simply chose not to help him. I think it makes sense for her to be in a fairly privileged position to speak her mind.Only the Boltons flay people and they are all gone, so def not being flayed. https://youtu.be/AXAnxAA73xM?t=1m21sOlly was able to use a bow and arrow at the wall. He killed Ygritte. Short, babyfaced Olly.Holy shit, 10 year olds can use bows. You don't hand them a 100lb draw long bow, no, you get something easier to draw. How do you think people learn? They don't wait to become adults to pick up archery.Well, if Olly could do itOr anyone for that matter. Despite being a far superior weapon in almost every regard for centuries, guns managed to outphase bows by the simple fact that they were even simple enough for Billy Buttfuck to use (And we're talking about complex muskets and stuff, a testament to the difficulty of bowmanship).George's writes women "like they're people" which is why we like so many of his characters so much. It's also why ASOIAF has yet to feature a copy of "How to fight White Walkers 101" being raped all so we can have a nice pandering moment of "Girls can fight too! >:("Keep reading then smart ass.She ended up on fire. That's pretty bright.The child soldiers don't shit themselvesLike that little bitch Sam from Alexandria.There's mass graves at The Twins and all over The Riverlands. 

They're not going to lack for wights Oh yes, pretty simple, move everyone south. lol Which is why he said they need to start training everyone. The Freys would be an example of a rich house with no respect. If they tried to make an impassioned speech about training women, the other lords would laugh at them. More so when she is no "Jeor" or "Jorah", she never fought and she basically sent barely a hundred men to help.

She´s a arrogant bitter little person, she should just join the Ironborn, lol. She even lives on shitty island, it would fit perfectly.I am sorry but this conversation would take too long, it is a battle i am not willing to fight because i will lose even if i am right, i either have to reply to comments for the entire length of the next hour, or just leave mid-argument, so i am content with a status quo. I never talked about Ironborn. And by big strong men, we mean a pop  ular someone similar to a superhero, not just any big strong man.That's exactly what i am against, they are giving her screentime to satisfy the viewers. And by women's rights activist i am talking about the "knitting by the fire" part, it does have 21st century flavor.Well, she should be a good administrator then, or a good diplomat. Not that smartass she is.They weren't cowards, they were smarter and more calculating than Bear Island, they didn't want to fight for the lost cause that Jon's would be if not for Littlefinger.How is she one of the most important people in the north by bloodline ?...
You stated that this was the third time, when infact it wasn't.
My comment was referring to the scene from 7x01.
 

Also, Season 1, Episode 1: Arya puts Bran to SHAME.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=p3McA5fYmxcThere is no reason to assume a boy living in a woodland village hasn't used a bow already extensively. There is plenty of reason to assume young girls in a society styled after Medieval Europe wouldn't have that kind of experience or practice. There is no reason to assume a boy living in a woodland village hasn't used a bow already extensively. There is plenty of reason to assume young girls in a society styled after Medieval Europe wouldn't have that kind of experience or practice. > Dany starts the book series at 12 years old and she's telling dothraki what to do by the end of AGOT.

Work on your reading comprehension then smart ass."They already have a big army, what does it matter if we waste time, resources and lives to only make their army bigger?"

That's really your argument?

It's a lot more realistic and useful than throwing your children and grandparents at monsters who can create zombies lmaoBecause they won't be moving when you muster them together from all over the North to form armies and train and arm them? Literally the only difference is one way they're moving North and the other way they're moving South.As if that´s possible, if it was possible to train "anyone" in a good way, they would have done in the past and you would have Robb Stark march south with an army of 200k men instead of 20k.

Basically he´s saying "just tell anyone how to swing a sword, come up with a way to give them any weapons and send them to die".

Let´s be realistic.what does Grey man mean then? Also, I'm not really sure what to tell you about the superhero relation, don't really get what you're saying.Hey did you fight? No? Why? Because I didn't want to lose. Can argue smart but they bet on them losing so they're cowards. Those who don't pick sides are worse than those who pick a side. They're too cowardly to make a decision. She's the head of House Mormont, to act against her would be an attack on the house, and since they are allied with Jon Snow that would be suicide.but that doesn't make a bow hard to use... they can make bows that are easier to draw even with old timey tech.Have you read the books? The Mormonts are a house of warrior women.Lol still triggered I see.Don't you think that, eventually, the white walkers will move south as well?  Do you think they'll stop at the neck?

At what point do you recognize that this is a global threat, and simply moving isn't going to protect anyone?So when thousands and thousands of Northerners show up in the Riverlands and the Reach and keep moving further and further south, what do you think is gonna happen then? Southerners are just going to let them use all their resources for the winter? The south still have most of their armies, the north doesn't. This is a very unrealistic situation and you are asking people to be realistic lol. 

Armies of the dead aren't a normal occurrence, so they would normally not send women and children and old men to war. By grey man, i mean not someone like Jon who is plain white, and not Cersei or Euron whom are plain black, someone grey like Stannis, before they made him black by burning poor Shireen.

The superhero relation is that the guy above said i wanted the story to end with a big strong man cutting the Night king's heart out in a duel. This usually happens in a superhero movie.So, you prefer Germany, Russia and the States to Switzerland in World War II ? neutrality is not as good as picking the winning side, and better than being on the losing side.That's not bloodline though. The Umbers and Karstarks fought against Jon, last i heard, they were spared, the Manderlys were sworn to Roose, That Frey guy who broke his neck tried to cut his throat. Yes, i do believe that Jon would execute anyone who tried to hurt Lyanna Mormont, but a northern lord has no right to know that, not everyone knows Jon as we do.Have you ever fired a bow before? >Moving goal posts

We are talking about whether its realistic for the young girls of the north to be using bows, not whether Lyanna Mormont can use a bow.Even in the show there's a precedent for noble Northern women using weapons. During the scene at Horn Hill Sam's sister mentions how they met Lord Umber and he taught his daughters to huntBut you did say at the end of AGoT. And like they said at the end of that most of the dothraki abandon her. Sure, in later books she gains more followers but you didn't say that. Good one.Holy fuck, guys. yes, if the armies of the North are defeated, everyone will be at risk.

That is why you don't want to make their job harder. Don't give the white walkers more dead bodies to reanimate. The women and children would be cannon fodder. They wouldn't kill anyone, especially the children, and then would be turned into wights. This isn't about gallantly saving the women and children. It's about making sure the army of the dead doesn't get any more dead.

This really isn't that hard to grasp.At what point do you recognize that White Walkers can create zombies and every single person who isn't good enough at fighting to kill a wight before they die will only make the White Walkers stronger and every person needs to kill at least two to even damage their ranks?


I don't know why this is such an incredibly difficult concept for people like you to grasp. Its pretty sucking simple. Move the old/weak/children to a safer part of the continent. Gather your physically fit and well trained populace, fight with them exclusively and constantly refuel the White Walkers ranks with old/weak/children wights. Just look how popular refugees and migrants are in our rich and well fed world. 

"Taking our jobs/houses/women" you can magnify that 1000 times if the vague slogans about jobs and women are replaced with "actually eating all our food" > White Harbor and the Neck are some of the least destroyed areas in the North.

Can you not read or?....

Regardless, that'll be up to Jon to negotiate if they do go that far south. Trying to envision an Idiot Plot to prevent the best step forward in ASOIAF of all places is just laughable. 

And as you said, they'll die either way. The difference being that while going south there is a good chance they can live and if they do die, it will be in controlled environments where their bodies can be disposed of, starving the White Walkers. You don't get it.

First off, the unrealistic fantasy elements do not make it acceptable to be unrealistic in the real life domains of the show. It's called reasonable suspension of disbelief, look it up

Second, the fact that it's an army of the dead *makes it even more important* to not put young boys and girls and old men, ineffective cannon fodder soldiers who can't kill that many wights or White Walkers, into battle, because when they all die that's that many extra wights the actual good fighters have to fightThey don´t even send 10% of young-normal adult males in normal wars.

You seem really to not understand the logistics of teaching "everyone" to fight.

It would mean that EVEN IF all the soldiers of the North are considered(let´s say around 1% of the population) would have to teach about 80%(removing old, sick and young people) of the population to fight all over a Russia sized country. 1:80 teacher student ratio, you don´t teach anything in that way.

That´s not realistic, we are not talking about zombies there, I can accept zombies existing in this world, I can´t accept the logic being broken.Well, then the only thing I have to say is that this is most likely not a story of Black and White. No one in this story is innocent. Everyone is grey.

This is a song of Ice and Fire. Cold and Hot. Two opposites meeting and altering each other. Everyone in the story has their own goals. A good leader needs to be grey. Jon and Cercei may be the black and whites but Dany has been fighting to understand how to be grey the whole time. There's your grey. A grey Queen who will burn the white walkers with Jon's help no doubt.That's a false analogy. They were oath sworn to the Starks or Boltons. They ignored their oaths. Switzerland didn't and doesn't have a treaty with any country on mutual defense (save Lichtenstein). So you can't use that analogy. I meant the Mormont bloodline, not that she's related to the Starks somehow. Actually my dad made sure I was out bow hunting with him at around age 16. But I had already been made to practice at it since I was about 7.Go find your average 10 year old girl. Ask yourself, "Could she kill two fast moving ice zombies with nothing more than a sharpened stick (Lets be honest, the peasant levies aren't getting swords and armor)?"


People defending this atrocious strategy are insane. And the worst part is, knowing D+D and the shows writing, they'll complete overlook this and act like Lyanna is some brilliant strategist for literally picking the worst possible strategy against zombies. 1% percent is too low, at least 5%.It is not a Song of Ice And Fire, it is Game of Thrones, Daenerys and Jon are white, Cersei and Euron are black. The show doesn't portray Dany as grey, she is as white as it gets.How can you respect oaths when the guy requesting it just broke his (from a northern lord's point of view, at least, it is not too easy to believe a guy was resurrected), which just happens to be one of the holiest and most honorable in the land ?  Well the Mormont bloodline doesn't matter as much as the Glover or Manderly line. Jeor and the Mormont girls were great, but that is because we got to know them more than we did the others.Huh, then its very odd to me how little understanding you have of the difficulty of bowmanship. Especially when we are talking about medieval bows and not the much less strenuous and easier to use compound bows of the modern-era. 

[Regardless, the point about using bows is pretty moot for wights](https://youtu.be/1e4lJh-xxGA?t=6m31s). As we've seen, you really need to either destroy their bodies beyond use (best done with melee weapons) or use fire on them. 


EDIT: added timestamp5% are super mobilized modern armies, medieval armies are rarely even 1% of the population as a whole.

For example 5% of France(1400-1800)´s population is 400k and that´s napoleonic sized, not medieval sized.I hope you know the literal name of the overarching story is  A Song of Ice and Fire. Game of Thrones, the show, got its title from the first book, A Game of Thrones. That's just a subtitle in the ultimate story.

Dany has dealt with darkness to test her so she doesn't become the same as the Mad King. After everything though her final test will be how she conquers Westeros at which point she will find her side. I would even argue to say Cersei isn't entirely black but in the end after she has been tested as well and lost everything she has chosen her side. If you can't see the way Dany has dealt with her darkness then I don't know what to tell you. Either way, the show is going to end how it's going to end whether we like it or not.I can't speak on that and GRRM has to give a better run down than the show. I'm assuming it involves alot of removing of a shirt and showing a crap load of stab wounds. Maybe the night's watch wrote a letter signed by all present. But still their oaths to ramsey weren't kept. They sat on the side lines and watched. Like scavengers doing nothing themselves and feasting on others work and blood. This is one of the worst parts of the show. It's hard to feel any tension when you know that anybody can show up at any time because everyone is on a different timeline. It feels like I'm being punished for paying attention. 

It might have taken some actual work to get things to make sense and the writers seem totally content just phoning it in at this point. I am thinking the same. So we can assume that Jaime left right after the feast. Some time after that (few days max) Arya kills Walder. Within two weeks Arya kills the rest as we see in S7E1. So unless Jaime took less than two weeks to get from The Twins to KL, the Freys are dead by the time he gets back. 

Now it depends on how much time passed between sept explosion and Jaime's arrival. I think a week max, since the place is still smoking.

So the timeline ls:

Jaime at Twins -> Arya kills Walder -> Arya kills rest of the Freys -> KL explosion -> Jaime arrives at KL

That would explain how they already know about the massacre and why there are already Lannister soldiers trying to keep peace there. 

So the scene in a way was a flashback (which was a lot of people's first guesses why Walder is back), since some scenes from last season had to happened after it (Olenna in Dorne for example, Cersei crowned).

In the end, the more you start thinking about passage of time in GoT and how the different storylines are slightly misaligned, the more convoluted it becomes. So I just assume things are happening roughly at the same time.It happened about a couple weeks after Jaime left, so it depends how close you think Jaime was to King's Landing when the Sept blew and how long it takes to get there.   This isn't Westworld.Just give us a middle ages Westworld!It is GoT though. Where events do take place rather spread apart. People complain about teleporting, like Varys showing up in Dorne after being in Mereen and then he's with Dany on the ships, but this is just passage of time. The show is like this because the books are like that. Totally agree. D&D tried to make the first (maybe first few seasons) happen concurrently. They have stated they no longer try to do this to help with the pace of the show. Yeah, if you didn't do that, you'd end up with Walking Dead-esque pacing, which each episode focused on a different storyline, and will create a very leisurely pace that's not GoTs style. >Jaime is going to snap when Cercei orders the mountain to kill her, since he has some fathers feelings for Arya. 

He never interacted with Arya. Jaime has never spoken to Arya? Why would he do that? Didnt he, Brianne and Arya travel a a lot together? Because he promised Catelyn a long time ago?No. No? Whilst I do think Jaime would want to honour that, I'm not sure that he would go to the lengths of killing his sister for it, specially as he doesn't have a connection with Arya at allTrue. But he has a preexisting relationship of sorts with Arya's well being. I doubt very much that he will ever kill her. I still think it will be Tyrion. People are asking the wrong questions


The question isn't should cersei have done nothing


But CAN cersei do anything?


My answer is no


The lancastors have ZERO allies...they don't even rule the 7 kingdoms anymore (cersei even says this with her "enemies" line from the trailers)


It was already established that the lancastors are poor...and the armies are spread thin (from the game of thrones season 2 and 3)


To simply put I do not think cersei can do anything other than symbolic gestures to defend dragonstone(symbolic being having a few hundred troops there)I feel Like If i was Euron I would have taken it over and used it as my Pirate base to capture ships coming and going from the capital. It seems to be a much better Island than Iron Islands as well. I dont really think it is important.   The vast majority of Dany's army is Dothraki on horse.  She's not going to be able to launch any attack from that castle, she needs to get to open plains.  It's pretty useless for any reason except as a convenient location to meet up with somebody looking for Dragonglass.
Thanks for the answers, everyone. I somehow completely missed the fact that it's practically adjacent to King's Landing. That said, most of the comments explain why it's important to _Dany_, not to the other factions. With KL not being directly under threat and the war seemingly being over, I still can't see Cersei focusing on it over the Tyrells and other internal problems, and I already explained my reasoning for why I think it's unlikely Stannis left a garrison there.you can assume it was garrisoned and the troops either immediately surrendered or ran when the dragons and fleet showed up.

I mean the show only implied it was empty. Two lines next week could change that "the castle was lightly manned. they put up no fight and surrendered"It's the same reason Hawaii (and other Pacific islands) were strategically important to the U.S. and Japanese during World War 2. What I don't understand is that Cersei and Jaime discussed where she was going to land and saw the importance of Dragonstone, yet allowed her to take it anyway. I know they don't have the army Cersei thinks they have but still that's what gets me with the abandoned castle, not some lowly storm lord taking it, but the queen. as she knows that's where fucking three dragons will be setting up base. It gives Dany a foothold in Westeros. Having a castle as your base is very important, because it gives you a defensive position to retreat to in case anything goes poorly. Without Dragonstone, Cersei could take the fight to Dany whenever she liked, but now she isn't free to just attack Dany because Dany would have the defensive advantage. And to make it worse, it's right next to King's Landing, making it even more strategically important People have already addressed why it's such an important castle so I won't reiterate that. However I think the reason why this criticism keeps on being repeated is because Jaime and Cersei accurately guessed early on in the episode that Dany would be landing at Dragonstone but they did nothing to try and stop it. But, you could equally argue that they didn't have enough time, I mean Dany's on their very doorstep, Euron's fleet probably got through Blackwater Bay just before Dany's arrived. Without a clearer timeline of events, like what we have in the books, it's harder to give or take away the legitimacy of criticisms such as this one. Things like Littlefinger's teleporting however, now that's much harder to explain.It's important for all the reasons people mentioned but people are still forgetting Cersei really simply can't hold Dragonstone no matter how much it's needed. She doesn't have the troops, ships or supplies to actually hold it and use it for its full potential. I think people are forgetting that in the books, when Cersei sends for it to be taken, the Tyrells are the ones who do it for her. The Tyrells have the ships, a lot of troops and have loads of food to supply everything. But in the show, Cersei obviously has no support from them or the other Reach lords so far, thus can't take Dragonstone even though it would be needed. And there's no garrison from Stannis because Stannis has been dead for ages, even Varys knew that from Meereen, so it's fair to assume that they simply deserted the castle after they heard their king was dead and their cause absolutely lost. It is very close to King's Landing and if you control Dragonstone with half a decent fleet you control what comes in and out of Blackwater Bay. 

[Here's a map for reference](http://cdn.obsidianportal.com/assets/107069/CrownlandsTopo.jpg)Most points have been addressed in other comments, but another point nobody else mentioned is that simply holding Dragonstone, regardless of whether or not you have a fleet to block Dany's ship from invading the bay, denies her of a convenient base of operation. If she can't lands there it means she basically has to either attack KL directly without having a base to regroup/coordinate her attacks or having to first land elsewhere and take another harbor.

But of course realism of the military tactics in this show has been thrown out the window long ago so it doesn't matter much in the end.If you have a fleet Dragonstone helps you protect your entry to Kings Landing from the sea. The Lannisters don't have a standing fleet however.I had this idea that our first view of Dragonstone in the season premiere would be a small Lannister fleet sieging Stannis's Dragonstone garrison as a way to show Daenerys's arrival and how the news would get back to Cersei at King's Landing.

As others have said, Dragonstone is strategically located - it was close for the Targaryens to launch their invasion and conquering of Westeros, and a place where Stannis could capture and enlist hundreds of ships in his swelling fleet as he plotted an attack on King's Landing.

I don't think it's near enough to prevent all goings and comings to King's Landing, but that has to be done very carefully, as Tyrion did by sending Myrcella to Braavos on the *Seaswift*, escorted and protected by others ships of the royal fleet, to then join with a Martell fleet for Dorne.-   right   next to King's Landing

- dragonglass

- it's right fucking next to King's LandingNot a book fan I guess? Because in ACOK the mere fact that Stannis is at Dragonstone stresses the hell out of Cersei.

Dragonstone is in the middle of the entrance to Blackwater Bay. The Blackwater rush enters the bay at Kings Landing. So if you hold Dragonstone you have a much easier time controlling what ships can gains access to the Bay, the capital of Westeros, and a bit of the inland Crownlands and Riverlands if invaders went up the Blackwater rushIt's really only strategically valuable if you have a fleet of ships.The Ironborn are at their best at sea though. Being on Dragonstone means you're most likely going to face a siege when Dany arrives, and that puts the Ironborn out of their element.The mere fact that it's important to Dany means it's important to Cersei, if for no other reason than to deny Dany an important strategic asset.But Cersei did do something. She invited the only person in the seven kingdoms who has a fleet large enough and soldiers trained for naval combat to King's Landing to create an alliance? Timing seems to be the issue, but it looks like they are protected from sea now.

As far as land goes, if the Frey's didn't get massacred they would of had protection from the North, but it's entirely possible they still hold the Riverlands as the Tully's surrendered their castle. Good news for them, Jon is too worried about an undead army than to attack her.  Anyways, they have their Lannister army in place to protect themselves from High Garden/Dorne. 

Technically Littlefinger is the Lord of Harrenhal by Cersei's doing and has the Vale at his disposal. she also sent Little Finger to Bring the Vale into the fold. So if she considers a proposal from him as well, he is one step closer to sitting on the Iron Throne as he wants and she has an army to help protect from the North. So, its not like she doesn't have options. The Lion has three heads? Wouldn't be the first time she took notes from the Targaryen relationship playbook.I said it a little further up, but there's nothing they could have done with no fleet, and then the very next thing they do is try to broker a deal for a fleet? If she has troops to fight Daenerys' huge army with then she has enough men to garrison Dragonstoneking swoodIs it just me or does Driftmark look extremely valuable - almost more valuable -
 from a strategic standpoint if you're defending King's Landing? It's more of a chokepoint than Dragonstone, and we know it's capable of supporting a fair sized population (House Velaryon & assorted towns,) military or no. Would be a great spot to stage area denial of an invading fleet to Blackwater Bay. We know it's been used in the past to control access to Blackwater Bay. Wonder if it's on Dany's mind...When do we expect the Lannisters to have garrisoned Dragonstone? 

We've not been told that they have a navy. Given that Jaime references Euron having burned the Lannister fleet, I think we're to assume that there is no Lannister navy. That may even be the point in that line of dialogue. So how are the Lannisters supposed to have arrived at Dragonstone?

So at the opening scene of S7, Cersei is now finally free of dealing with the faith, and as far as we know, this is the first she's heard of the imminent invasion. Why would she have garrisoned Dragonstone in the time between Stannis leaving and now, considering all of her enemies were in King's Landing, (except the Blackfish, which is where she sent the Lannister army). 

So the first thing she does upon hearing there will be an invasion of Westeros from overseas? She invites the Greyjoys to KL. Cersei "no-fleet" Lannister does the most expedient thing possible in attempting to garrison Dragonstone, in that she tries to broker a deal with the largest fleet on her side of the world.Steady on. I've read the books and don't remember that. So basically....Cersei is a dumbass for not taking Dragonstone for the crown in advance, KNOWING there were rumors of Dany coming?  Although...I guess with a bigger armada and 3 dragons, what sort of fight would Cersei be able to put up?  Hmm.

Edit:  Never mind, I see below that the Lannisters no longer have a navy.More so when Crackclaw peninsula and Maasey`s Hook are or should be Old Targaryen Loyalists, but I doubt the show has time for that.or some kind of air supportBut that´s not true, because effectively owning it denies the enemy a strategical valuable point, making it a strategical point for yourself regardless if you have ships or not(in any case with the Ironborn Cersei does have that.

When did Cersei learn Dany was coming though? Did she even have the time to capture and man the castle? Even if she did, did she have the resources to do so? As we know from Season 6, the Lannister army is about 8000 strong, which isn't much even by the show's reduced numbers. Does she really have the men to spare when she's surrounded by enemies? It still would've been wise for Cersei to send some men to Dragonstone to deny Dany an easy and powerful foothold, or at the very least make her bleed for it, Stannis' Dragonstone garrison in the books caused the Lannister's and Tyrell's to lose over a thousand men in taking the castle. And speaking of Euron he made it to Kings Landing didn't he. Which means he would've had to have sailed past Dragonstone, which means he got there before Dany did. Couldn't he have dropped off some men. He went to Kings Landing clearly knowing he was going to end up in a war against Dany and her allies, that would've been a great move on his part, force them to lay siege to the castle and then surround them with the rest of his fleet.

I doubt Jon would attack even without the WW threat. Why should he? Cersei didn't kill Ned and Robb, the people who did that are all dead. Jon would be perfectly content to just let Cersei watch as he tears away a third of her kingdom. And if Cersei decides to just take the fight to Jon then all he needs is a couple hundred archers and Moat Cailin and he's already beaten her.There would've been ships in the KL docks that they could easily have commandeered to sail out a skeleton crew to Dragonstone but again we don't know how much time passed between all the scenes. From the way Jaime was talking it sounded as if Dany was very close, could be that they did send out a small force and Dany's forces just happened to get there first. She doesn't have enough troops though that's the point. The Lannisters are spread thin with trouble in the Riverlands, Dorne and the Reach. The North looks to be vying for independence as far as she can tell, as well as the Ironborn until Euron came to King's Landing. She can barely manage on land, so how she'd be able to get the ships, men and supplies to garrison an island and maybe defend from a Targaryen fleet, that could land ANYWHERE from Sunspear to the Crownlands, is beyond me. They don't really need a proper fleet just to send a garrison. Even if they don't have a thousand ships they most certainly have access to a few ships or at worst to a trading ship that can still be used to ferry a few hundred soldiers to Dragonstone. We're not talking about storming a well defended castle since it is left undefended, and they knew that it had been empty for a while so why not do it? Even if they need most of their soldiers on the main land their army would still be at least 10000 strong so a few hundred men would not make for a significant disadvantage but would make Dany's landing much more complicated as she would have to either burn the ancestral castle of her family with her dragons or storm it, costing her a large number of troops.The king's landing fleet wasn't used in the battle of blackwater, and the Lannister fleet was burnt like 10 (show) years ago, during the ironborn rebellion. It's almost certainly been rebuilt since then. And in the show Cersei has a ship built for Myrcella, so they have the capability to build ships.Don't remember any of that either. It's Stannis leaving Dragonstone that scares Cersei.In the books the opposite happens, she calls Dragonstone "A knife at my son's throat" making it a top priority.I should have expanded on that. I meant its strategic value is the ability to use a fleet to block access into Blackwater Bay, thereby cutting off water access to King's Landing. There is no other real strategic value. Anyone without a fleet would be at risk of a siege.If she's not curbstomped by Daenerys within the first battle then she had enough troops to put on DS.

> She can barely manage on land, so how she'd be able to get the ships, men and supplies to garrison an island and maybe defend from a Targaryen fleet, that could land ANYWHERE from Sunspear to the Crownlands, is beyond me.


Dragonstone is an extremely important strategic location. Jaime even says it's the obvious route for an invasion and it's right next to KL. 

DS is the second most important place to hold after KL. 

And Cersei could build rowboats to make it from KL to DS. (I mean if Gendry can do it so can her army)

You do not want to give Daenerys a base next to the capital.We've not been told that's the case, so we can't assume that it is. Many who accuse the show of having plot holes say that you shouldn't have to make assumptions in this way, so in my view, you can't use such an assumption to defend the notion.

We've never seen Lannister ships and we were told they were burned, therefore we can't assume they're a naval power.So with Euron and his 1000 ships in blackwater bay and dany at dragonstone will we see a confrontation this soon. or do you thin euron came and went before dany arrived?Not being curbstomped doesn't mean she has enough troops for Dragonstone. That's ridiculous. 

It *is* important, but then they could land in the Stormlands like Aegon does in the books or something like that. Somewhere she can meet up with her Reach and Dornish allies and march with a massive army. 

Whatever, there's loads of possibilities. The point is, diverting troops and resources to Dragonstone could be dangerous considering a Tyrell or Martell army could attack her interests at any point. If she did send troops to Dragonstone there wouldn't feasibly be enough men or resources to protect it and so Dany would easily take the island, yet if there were enough to protect Dragonstone then she'd be vulnerable elsewhere. 

Rowboats cannot carry enough troops and supplies to the island and then continue to keep supplying them. They need actual ships, which they didn't have much of until Euron showed up. 

The whole point is, Cersei is in a shitty unwinnable position and it's all her fault, because she's just that incompetent. We can definitely assume that *Tywin Lannister* rebuilt his fleet after it was burnt, again, like 10 years ago. There also IS a royal fleet, it's mentioned during the battle of the blackwater. It's more ridiculous to assume they *don't* have a navy.Confrontation soon.In the books, Cersei had to go through the whole trouble to building a huge amount of ships (which were stolen) precisely because Tywin hadn't built any and Stannis had taken most of the Royal Fleet. I know show is show and book is book, but Tywin's character hasn't changed much between the two media. 

I just scanned the wiki, seems show Cersei did try to rebuild the Royal Fleet because between Stannis taking most of it, and massive explosions at Blackwater there weren't many ships left. Doesn't seem to say whether that was completed though. 

I'll concede that there were probably enough ships left to get a small garrison to Dragonstone. That said, would there have been enough ships to get enough men there in time? I'm not sure, considering that before knowing Daenerys was coming, there would be no point in preparing for an Essosi invasion. Two words: Submarines.In the show they only send the one ship with the wildfire outI was thinking Krakens...Well in S5E4, Cersei says it needs rebuilding, so I guess there's not enough left for her liking. Let's get serious please.I don't mean to toot my own horn, but I just wrote a post last night on the symbolism in Sam's shit montage and the culminating scene in the morgue. How it mirrors a scene in the ancient Egyptian Book of the Dead.Watch how the tinfoil theorists try to spin this to mean that Sam is a secret Targaryen.No, Sam isn't a secret Targ. We know from the books that a man fitting Jaqen h'Ghar's description is currently in the citadel, and we know that Sam has killed a White Walker. What is super effective against Ice? Water. Who is a master of water? A water dancer, of course.

Sam = Syrio Forel confirmed.
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (No Spoilers) thread.  This scope covers NO story elements of ASOIAF or "Game of Thrones" per [Rule 3.3](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules).  Any discussion of the story of the books or the show must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Main) or (Spoilers Published).

Threads about r/asoiaf (meta topics) will be removed at moderator discretion.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*I remember posting something about this piece right after the Season 6 finale, but it wasn't very comprehensive. It was more of a commentary on how certain parts of the piece were able to musically express darkness and death. 



Not sure about the comment, but there is a really well done in-depth video about the entire episode. [This](https://youtu.be/-hh-52ptifI) is the one I mean. This is the first time they've used a piano in the show, as well.Thanks, yeah I read an interview a while back about piano not being used on the show, yet.  I wish I could find the post where the piece of picked apart that showed how genius it was!  Thanks for the link, will check it out!Maybe Sansa wanted one of the holdings for herself? Its clear that she wants to rule. With Jon being in charge of Winterfell she could've tried to establish her own seat. For all intent and purposes she does have a claim on the Dredfort. Couldn't they still give one of those families the Dread fort?  Who is manning it now that all the Bolton are dead? Moe Greene and Hymn Roth probablyYes, Houses like Mormont who were with them from the beginning. 
And normally this is the proper method of ruling, you reward your loyal supporters so they stay loyal. 

In this special case however, Jon is right. 

Jon knows that the Northern Lords are even more traditional than Southern Lords. Confiscating ancestral seats is something that is almost never done in the North. Allowing wildlings to man the Wall is revolutionary enough, the North needs to see that Jon respects tradition and continuity. 

His "sins of fathers" speech also gives him precedent for Daenerys. Daenerys is still driven by revenge against "the usurper's dogs". Now Jon has set the precedent that children do not suffer for their parents acts and can demand Dany to hold the same standard.To Littlefinger, for saving them, which would have been fair.

Who is going to object?  None of those Northern Lords bothered to show up out of their castles for the battle.

Littlefinger can then use them to secure some alliances in the Vale.  Grant them to second sons who agree to marry a Northern lady.Lady Sandra, due to hanging around psychopaths like Ramsey and Cersei for a few years, apparently only makes super hardline decisions now.I thought in terms of strategy it made sense.

Following Northern politics is what got Ned and Robb killedFair or not, does giving Littlefinger more power really seem like a good idea? More to the point, would Sansa think it would be a good idea? She knows Littlefinger well enough not to trust him.At least she's not as annoying as Lady Salsa.They weren't killed for following northern politics in the north though...I mean, I agree that, as a hypothetical strategy, it makes sense. I'm just uncertain as to how she would implement it in a reasonable wayShe's a spicy redhead.Robb's faith in his bannermen was his ultimate downfall, as was Ned's nobility. Their traits they learned and inherited from the North ultimately led to their demiseTheon Greyjoy sacking Winterfell and Stannis Baratheon losing at the blackwater were Robb's downfall more than any of his bannermenYes but what I'm saying is that Jon and Sansa are ruling the north, not hand of the king or conquering other kingdoms, therefore Northern politics will not be their downfallThe way Baelish is handling the Vale can you be sure?I mean we haven't really seen him 'handling' much, without sweetrobins say so bronze yohn and the rest won't take shit from him He doesn't handle anything, he just hints at others to handle it for himDoes Edmure not count? Hoster Tully wasn't really acting as Lord at the start of the books, he was basically in a medical induced coma. The only person who still considered hoster the Lord of riverrun was Cat and she was in denial. The Hightowers! kevan is dead in the show also, he was at the sept during the trialI'm pretty sure Kevan died in the Sept of Baelor in the season finale of S6, but I may be wrong.So in the show Balon won the war of five kings and Sweet Robin won the game of thrones. I wonder if this is what Grrm had planned.Isn't Littlefinger the Lord of the Riverlands? Walder Frey was given Riverrun, but I believe Littlefinger got Harrenhal and the Riverlands.Oh yeah, good call!Now in the show, and Hoster Tully was the Lord of the Riverlands when the show started so it's moot.Book only. Littlefinger was only made Lord of Harrenhal in the show.Ah, good point. Still, Hoster Tully dies so the point stands. I like the idea of Sam figuring out the process for making Valyrian steel. There was the suggestion of ingesting dragon glass for treatment of greyscale. Perhaps adding dragon glass to iron is part of the process for Valyrian steel. 

And then sure, why not bring back Gendry. Dragonglass are different from Valyrian swords. The CoFT used dragonglass as weapons and First Men used them to fight the walkers. They are brittle and break easily. Hence, the CoFT were unable to defend against First Men who brought with them weapons made of bronze. 

Ice the sword that beheaded the deserter from the Wall in First Episode is a good example of the sword. One thing that occurs to me, regarding dragonglass/obsidian regards the Citadel itself.

Even today, obsidian blades are sharper than modern surgical steel, and possess a smoother, less jagged edge allowing for cleaner incisions. Until the advent of surgical steel, obsidian was commonly used in surgeries, and probably should be now, though in the US at least its not licensed for use in human surgery.

It would seem to make sense, then, that in a land where stone-age technology was based around obsidian, that the maesters, at least, would have retained the use of the superior material for dissection and surgery, rather than switching to steel just because that was the dominant technology. We didn't, so why would they? Unless they all have VS scalpels, and they are superior to dragonglass.

Which suggests that the maesters might know how to effectively knap obsidian tools, and therefore be invaluable in the fight against the others. I squinted at what Slughorn was using to chop up the dead maester, but sadly it looks like metal he's using, which probably thwarts my theory - at least in the show - but I'll cling to it for the books.All that rowing is good practice for the dragonglass smithing Dragonglass is... glass. It breaks just like glass. [This](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knapping) is the process they would have to useIn our own history, obsidian weapons were used 700,000 years ago. Pretty sure people in Westeros can figure it out.Obsidian is very brittle. It can easily be manipulated by anyone into weapons.You don't need a blacksmith for dragonglass. It's just a rock you chip into the shape of a spear, arrowhead, small knife, etcThe reason it wouldn't be used for surgery is because while it is extremely sharp, it is also extremely brittle. If you twist it while you're cutting or if you hit a bone, fragments will chip off and it will ruin the cutting edge as well as leave small fragments behind in the flesh. It's still used in surgery.
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (No Spoilers) thread.  This scope covers NO story elements of ASOIAF or "Game of Thrones" per [Rule 3.3](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules).  Any discussion of the story of the books or the show must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Main) or (Spoilers Published).

Threads about r/asoiaf (meta topics) will be removed at moderator discretion.


*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*[Tower of the Hand](https://towerofthehand.com/books/guide.html) has summaries for every chapter*(next episode cold open)*

"i wonder if i should have let Uncle Edmure out of that cell? or killed Jaime Lannister and stole his face if i wanted to get close to the queen? what do you think, psychotic manifestation that takes over my brain and compels me to rack up impossibly huge body counts?"

"BLAH, KILL THEM ALL BLAGHDUDB ALL MEN MUST DIE CUT THE MEAT CHOP THE BONES DRINK BLOOD BLAHFH-"

"that's true, i am overthinking things. i wonder if the Mad King Aerys heard friendly voices before he carried out his revenge massacres? perhaps he was just as misunderstood as us!"Even if 100% correct, practically speaking, there's no way the Lannisters would let a Tully regain/gain Riverrun or the Twins. The Lannisters still have control of Riverrun, correct?Arya forgot to release Edmure from his dungeon in the Twins before she left, soo....The Blackfish ain't dead until I see a body.I think we got the fan servicey arya scene just because of this reason, the riverlands storyline is finished for the show; they wrapped it up in their own style and will move on forward, people talking about the similarity with dragonstone situation are right, it's probably never gonna be talked about again.The show needs a way to introduce Howland Reed (besides Meera just going home). Isnt he located near the Twins? If so could Jon make him Lord of the Crossing? This is all assuming Edmure is dead or completely MIA. 

With the Freys gone the Lannisters hold on the riverlands is weak and it would be very easy for Jon to just claim it, even though his attention is to the North not the South. Jon could appoint him and at the same time learn of his mother and father. It would give him more importance on the show besides just coming in a saying he knows Jons true parentage. Sorry to nitpick, but a natural son is a bastard in the ASOIAF/GOT world.> So now that the Frey's seem a bit short on natural sons

Well we didn't see any kids Frey's when Arya poison them and we can at least assume that one Frey was too young to enter with all the "grown men" who ended up dying.Do you actually think D&D spent a minute of their time thinking about it?It would be a convenient way of returning the Riverlands to house Tully. Slightly unbelievable maybe. 

There would be female Freys older than Roslin, and male Freys too young to drink or otherwise not present. "It seems like this guy just fails upwards." hah... sad but true.  
  
I still haven't forgiven Edmure for betraying Mance Rayder in the Rome TV series, so tbh, I can't say I care if he succeeds or not.  
  
So many years since I watched Rome and I still hate his guts for that :(Arya presumably didn't murder the children, so there's got to be a young Frey boy somewhere. And, as all of the women were spared I think there's a good chance that one of them is carrying a male baby. Just the sheer number of Freys and their reputation for reproducing at a high rate would support that I'd guess. People hyping up the "THE FREY MALE LINE IS DEAD" nonsense are missing the bigger picture. Arya killed all of the abled body men that were responsible for the Red Wedding. She culled off 2+ solid generations as a punishment for that act. She didn't extinct the house. Depends if there is a female heir before Roslin. Get the tree out.So that makes Edmure Tully the Lane Kiffin of Westeros. I buy it.Seeing how Dragonstone was completely abandoned for no reason at all, I'm half expecting the show to completely forget about the Twins and later show us an empty castle with bodies still lying around the hall. Castles, holdings, strategic locations.. Who needs this shit, the cleanup alone will take days!!! let the enemies deal with it.If the Blackfish had gone with Brienne he'd be delighted round about now. 

There are dozens of Frey women, many young and unmarried. The family still has wealth. The Frey's will hold the Twins.Hope they don't cut out Edmure's storylineTechnically Edmure's son would be heir to the twins but still a good thought.Riverrun went to the Freys, the Lannisters just helped them retake it.> I still haven't forgiven Edmure for betraying Mance Rayder in the Rome TV series

In that case, I'd suggest skipping Outlander. Just saying.Depends where the boy is in line. She could kill 5 male sons and if the older male as a daughter, she gets it over the younger male cousinMore like the all-encompassing bramble patchHe'll retake the Riverlands under the name of Joey Fresh Waters. outstanding reference. I can think of a few:

* The castle ran out of food as Stannis stripped it to go North with his entire host. The castle staff and a maybe a few token guards abandoned it in search of food, better protection, etc...

* There was a token force there but they fled when they spotted a fleet coming, or you know... fucking dragons.  There would have been plenty of warning for anyone there.  Those fleets move slow and are easy to spot.

* Most likely reason: Dany sent an advance force to clean the place out. Unlike Jon, she's actually shown some military prowess in the past. Also, the scene clearly shows that the Unsullied guards with her already know the layout of the castle. 

Finally we see the landing at the beach, followed by the walk up the stairway, followed by the throne room, followed by the map room, end.  It hardly the full castle, and with Stannis, along with any heirs he may have being dead its not like whoever was left there is going to clean the place.

Sorry, I just find it annoying with complaints like this.  Its a beautiful scene that was extremely well shot and while it may be a little illogical, its also not much of a stretch of the imagination to see how it could happen.It probably had a very small force of Stannis loyalists that the crown had not got around to conquering due to all of the political turmoil. When they heard a dragon queen was sailing their way, they decided it was a good idea to abandoned the castle.   The castle had no strategic value with the information Cersei and Co had at hand.>There are dozens of Frey women, many young and unmarried. The family still has wealth. The Frey's will hold the Twins.

Depending on the rules of inheritance, edmure might come before them.Do you really think the issue with this show is that they don't have enough storylines?

I hope we never see Edmure again. I would like more of what we saw with the Hound with a small set of characters, rather than 15 small scenes focusing on tiny plot lines.Come to think of it, where the hell is Edmure? Did Arya leave her uncle rotting in a cell? I know Jaime offered to imprison him in Casterly Rock, but on their last conversation, I believe Walder insinuated that Edmure is still in HIS prison cell, implying that he could have him killed if he wanted to, but wouldn't. So if he was in the Twins, then it stands to reason he was not rescued. Or they are going to retcon that he is actually in the Rock and maybe that will come into play later.No. The bastard born paramour of Walder Frey's brother is the heir. We can't just assume Edmure's children will be heir to the Twins. Assuming that ALL adult male Freys, even the bastard sons, have died, you'd have to take into account all the male Frey children that weren't at the feast and the adult Frey daughters older than Roslin.Maybe, but the show is big on jure uxoris (and the reverse) inheritance so I imagine he would rule in the place of an infant.Perhaps that's true in a normal case of succession, this isn't really that case. Realistically House Frey is in shambles, all of the men in power including the patriarch were killed off. It would be easy to point to the normal case of succession, but someone needs to step up and pick up the pieces that are House Frey currently. The house is likely to fall into chaos in the fallout of this event and would likely need intervention from the Lannisters to settle it all down. Normally if they weren't the Lords of the Riverlands perhaps their liege lord would come in and appoint a castellon for the short to medium term until a suitable heir is of age or the castle is back in order.  
  
I see a lot of people speculating on where the Freys go from here or what we'll see from the Twins and Riverrun moving forward, in my eyes these people are missing the point. Arya took them out of the great game, she put their house into chaos, and with Dany on Dragonstone the Lannisters aren't in a position to pull a second rescue mission on the Riverlands when Jamie just returned. The Riverlands will be lucky if another lord such as Bracken or Mallister steps up and just takes shit over. Although that's likely to be a book only event (if it plays out the same way in Arya's arc) rather than show because introducing more characters just for a "the Twins is ok guys" moment isn't going to happen. Arya took them out of the show with that move, it was a mic drop on House Frey without her actually extincting them. Their story isn't really important in terms of affecting the rest of the show but will likely be much more rich of a plot in text.I have a feeling 99% of people on this sub will have no idea what this means.

r/CFB representing thoughAlso how would it have added to the story for there to be a few peasants lingering around the castle anyways?  It wasn't until recently time-line wise that anybody even took Dae dae seriously, and by that point it was already too late.

I enjoy reading about episodes after the episode, but it's hard too because people will find literally any scene "terrible" for a variety of reasons. The only scenes that were more or less unanimously loved were the BwB+S scenes and even then I saw some bitching.As was pointed out to me in another thread. Dragonstone is a small island with no arable lands so without constant resupply neither garrison nor even small folk can actually live there for long. So I guess it makes sense that it was abandoned. It is expensive to maintain and without land produces no income.There even a scene where Jamie explains strategic value of Dragonstone to Cersei.  If you mean dragonstone, It has huge stratetig value!

It's the ticket into blackwater, It's right off the coast to KL.

Not to mention it's an good castle to defend, And a really good stating place up the crownlands.Depending on the rules of inheritance, a tree might come before them.  Under the actual rules of inheritance, there's certainly someone ahead of Edmure, since he isn't in the succession. 

Also, the show is assuming that all the Freys in Westeros were somewhere close enough to be there ... which is weird. They are *all over* the place, many of whom had *nothing* to do with the Red Wedding. Funny you should mention the Hound because I would rather see them cut the Hound and the Brotherhood completely and focus on rallying the Riverlands behind Jon's cause against the white walkers. But apparently that's not important because hey we've got the Hound and Mr. Man Bun fighting for Jon/the living, who needs an entire kingdom?I think the issue with the show is that they don't plan out the storylines they have and when they decide to cut storylines out they often do it literally. The method by which they do so is often unsatisfying because they never planned a resolution so it seems to either come from nowhere or feel cheap. In the last episode of Season 6, Walder Frey tells Jaime at the feast that Edmure is still in the dungeons at the Twins because "it wouldn't be right to kill [his] son-by-law." 

So, technically Arya could have freed him. Whether the show has the time or the desire to wrap up that loose end is another thing. They could easily just have Cersei mention that the Riverlands has been reclaimed in the Tully name and that would do the trick for me.
Edmure could one of the major key characters as the Freys are gone. It would be a pretty damn shame if the show omits him or just kills him off.>Come to think of it, where the hell is Edmure? 

Not enough time for characters like him, despite a few filler scenes. Didn't Jaime make the deal that Edmure will live at Casterly Rock as a "guest" under House Arrest but still living with Roslin and having a good knightly education ensured for their son?
So at Casterly Rock, most likely.Who knows with this show and loose ends?  In the books I think he's being escorted toward the Westerlands And her lover's bastard children can be called the River Rats.While there may technically be others before Edmure's children in line for the Frey titles and lands they can't really claim those lands if they can't raise an army. And seeing how the Frey's aren't the most popular right now raising an army to claim your inheritance might prove rather difficult for anyone trying to get in Edmure's way. Or anyone else's who decides that they should be the Lord of the Crossing, especially in a time of war as the ruler of Seven Kingdoms can't really focus on solving inheritance squabbles.I'd never heard of jure uxoris before, now you've got me down a Wikipedia hole learning about kings of Jerusalem. 

I think we'll need to know how the Riverlands works out even if it is passing before the show ends. If its not Tully restored I'd put my money on Blackwood.As long as he free from Lord SabanThe fact that he had to do that might be a good explanation.

Cersei is very likely not wholly sane, in addition to that she is not a military commander.

I mean, it's kind of hand wavey, but it's plausible. 

Cersei didn't give a crap about Dragonstone because she doesn't know she should. The lannisters appear to be the only active military force in service of the crown right now and they have to hold the Stormlands, the Riverlands, King's Landing, and the Westerlands. 

They're spread out like too little butter over too much bread.

It's the kind of thing that would gwt a really good book explanation but would feel forced in the show I think.But Cersei has no ships, has an army already spread thin, is low on food, is surrounded by enemies, and dragons will make short work of any castle. Nevermind one you can't properly man, arm, and supply.  

Trying to hold Dragonstone would over-extend them when they're already exposed.  Particularly when they have to go after Highgarden for the food.
Not if there are no male heirs.

I'm pritty sure a son in law comes before a daughter.Maybe because Mr Man Bun is a prophet of a god whose influence has pervaded the entire storyline?Arya wouldn't have to rescue him.  With all the adult male Freys dead, Roslyn or anyone else could let him out.> They could easily just have Cersei mention that the Riverlands has been reclaimed in the Tully name and that would do the trick for me.

I'd settle for this, but more likely I feel like we just won't ever hear about the Tullys again.What filler?

Even the campfire scene had purpose. It demonstrates Arya's movements and shows she still has morality.Which will make it very interesting when the unsullied take it over as is presumed from the season trailer. You're right in the sense that the succession issue will likely be strong-armed by a third party, and maybe the Freys will be stripped of all lands and titles, but it seems unlikely anyone will be willing to give House Tully two major castles in the Riverlands. 

Either way, as it currently stands, House Frey still holds the Twins, it's just a matter of who is its new head. Edmure is still either a prisoner of House Frey or House Lannister, he's not getting jack. 

Any of the houses that has a grandson through House Frey will want in on the position of heir, as long as they're not too far, too minor or too depleted by the war. I see a lot of possible plots playing out that frankly don't involve the Riverlands at all. The most necessary bit of passing info from these would be Jaime sarcastically saying something like "and now we don't have the support of the Riverlands either." to go along with his "you have 3 at best" oneliner from S7E1. A lot of the show is about simplifying plot lines. To waste screen time explaining how the cards settle in the Riverlands isn't IMO going to happen.  
  
The same would be true IMO of other regions. If Bronze Yohn Royce, the Sandsnakes, or Queen of Thorns falls their region will be out of the game. There won't IMO be screentime devoted to something like House Ironwood reforming the Dornish campaign, or Randyll Tarly restoring order (even though he's already a show character), or the Corbrays taking over the Vale.  
  
I could be wrong, maybe they'll spend a good amount of time explaining what happens in the riverlands but I just don't see it given the massive plot points left to cover in only 12 episodes. You mean Night King SabanYep, the Redwyne fleet that was there is now with Dany, and Aurane Waters took off to be Jack Sparrow in the Stepstones.The ironborne sailed past it twice cersei couldve had them drop twenty good men off?No. A son in law is not in the succession. > whose influence has pervaded the entire storyline?

In the show he's been an extremely minor character.I think you're probably right but, at this stage ultimately minor things like this are inevitably going to be skimmed over because of time constraints, so I'm not going to be too precious about it.Poop soup"Hey Dany put me back on the throne of Riverrun and I'll bend the knee."

And centuries after Aegon's Conquest, a Targaryen is again putting the Tullys in charge of the Riverlands.

Maybe a she'll put a Baratheon *coughGendrycough* back in charge of the Stormlands too.> but it seems unlikely anyone will be willing to give House Tully two major castles in the Riverlands. 

One could be an offshoot branch like the Karstarks in the North
Unless it's going to be a supremely important plot point that GRRM had set up already, Riverrun would make a good candidate for Bronn's lordship in the show.But they didn't enter into an alliance at that meeting.  Cersei rejected the offer.  Why would they help now? One man with a knife should've been enough considering how Dany entered the castle.Cersei isn't in the succession, but look where she is now.In agnatic primogeniture a son in law would come before a daughter, who simply can't inherit. The son in law would likely take control jure uxoris and may or may not adopt the arms and words of their wife.But that's how tyrion would have gotten winterfell and how Ramsey didFor nowI really hate the time argument just because they're cutting out 7 episodes between this year and next. HBO has already said they're willing to pony up the cash. It really just seems like D&D have lost interest in the subtleties and want to rush to the end.Passage of time. 

Also shows us what Sam is up to, and that he didn't steal the book on his first day at the tower. 

Bonus: makes us barf. Show Dany's response: "Roslin is the last surviving member of the Freys. She will rule as lady of the Riverlands." I disagree. Though I would love to see Bronn elevated to lordship of a Great House, that sort of upward social mobility would take generations. Going from sellsword to a minor lordship would make sense, but as important as the Riverlands are, it seems too much of a leap.Because Euron is explicitly trying to woo her.


"You know what would really soak my panties? If you manned this extremely important castle in our harbor.".... she didn't inherit the Iron Throne?Sure, in a system that bans females from inheritance, even squirrels would come before them. That isn't how it works.

Women can inherit in Westeros, just not before brothers. For example, in the books, Cersei is Lady of Casterly Rock at the moment, since Tyrion is disinherited and Jaime is in the Kingsguard.Not Tyrion. Tyrion's child with Sansa.  Big difference If we take British style inheritance, which the story largely follows, then no, husbands do not inherit the wife's property. Think Mary Tudor. When she died, the throne passed to her closest blood relative (a half-sibling at that), not her husband. In medieval England, a wealthy heiress was desirable for her dowry, and often an annual allowance to maintain the husband's household. Her inheritance is hers alone to pass on to her children. 

With the Boltons or Tyrion, the assumption was that Sansa would be meek and her husband would run things. In *practice*, sure, they could have been Lord in all but name.Tyrion would not have gotten Winterfell.

He'd be ruling in his son's/daughter with Sansa's name only.Sansa was still the heir in both those cases. Winterfell was hers.You can still cut half of poop soup and show passage of time.*extremely smug face trying to look stoic*God that would be so lame. No one in Riverrun likes the Freys, but I could see that happening in the show. Perhaps. Bron's already a landed (promised, anyway) knight. Lannisters might get desperate in the days to come. I'm just spitballing anyway.She seized the throne. A queen married into the royal family NEVER has a claim on the throne, ever. She has no royal blood.She seized the Iron Throne because she could, not because she legally inherited it. All claimants (except for Dany) were dead. There is no indication that there are no more claimants to the Twins. It's funny that you should mention Casterly Rock since [that exact thing](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Joffrey_Lannister) happens there.There's no reason to believe that the laws of inheritance are the same all across Westeros (in fact we know they certainly aren't). There is certainly room for pragmatism. It seems highly unlikely that a woman would be permitted to rule the Twins in her own right given Walder's historic misogyny which presumably rubbed off on this descendants. It seems more likely that a husband of a Frey wife would be the de facto ruler and political reasons would likely see Edmure as a more likely candidate than someone married to a Frey higher up in the line of succession. > Winterfell is hers.

FTFY. Unless Bran wants it.

Poop soup HAD to be that long to properly frame the state of mind Sam is in by that time. Indeed, that is one of the main examples.In the wake of the Dance of Dragons, Westerosi inheritance was modified to downgrade the claim of all daughters to the bottom of the pile. In the absence of a male heir, women could inherit. Whether this applied to inheritance among the Great Houses is unclear, though it looks like that. Under Dornish law, inheritance follows the birth order, regardless of gender.They are all the same, save for in Dorne (where women inherit equally), and the Iron Throne (where apparently women aren't allowed to inherit at all, due to the Dance of the Dragons).Ops, you're right. Sorry!If only we could do more episodes or something. Maybe 10? Just throwing out numbers.That only applied to the Targaryens.  A daughter comes before a brother but after a son for everyone else, outside of Dorne.If Myrcella had been Robert's biological daughter, would she come before or after Stannis and Renly when it comes to inheriting the throne? Since Robert took the throne by conquest, would the royal Baratheon family adopt the successions laws of the Targaryens who previously held the throne, or would inheritance follow the Baratheon family's traditional inheritance laws?Hang on, can women *never* inherit the Iron Throne? I thought after the Dance, it was possible only in the absence of a male heir. You're saying under *no circumstances* a woman could ascend to the throne?! Jeez.He is the typical mad scientist. Petty personal grudges do not concern him. He just wants the resources to further his research.
A bit similar to all the Nazi scientists who went to work for the Americans after the war.Cersei never did anything to him and is frankly, very supportive of his hobbies.

The Mountain ... well, Qyburn got his revenge.Were the Bloody Mummers in the show? If he was a sellmaester then that could explain his lack of loyalty You may be overlooking that he zombified and is controlling the person who tortured him.

He serves Cersei loyally because Cersei gives him the resources and freedom to do his research. That's what he cares about. OK so he has absolutely no sense of anger or revenge for being left for dead? And what if he had family there? I just don't think it's realistic at all.Probably, but I like the theory that Qyburn is working with both Marwyn and Rodrick the reader. Of course the show cut both of these characters.No, I'm saying that he's *having* revenge if he wants it. He's turned his torturer into a subservient creature at his command.   Qyburn served with the Bloody Mummers, also known as The Brave Companions, who are a sellsword company out of Essos, led by Vargo Hoat, who was called Locke in the show (the guy who cut off Jaime's hand). 

The show has him appear as one of the wounded at Harrenhal, but that's their invention.  What he cares about is:

- 1) Getting his maester chain back

And

- 2) Being in a position of power where he can continue his experiments

He's pretty happy in his current condition. Originally, he accompanied Jaime to King's Landing in the hopes that Tywin would help him with (1), but now he's with Cersei, enjoying (2). 

He's very pragmatic. He doesn't hold a grudge against them, he gets that he was caught up in war. But as the poster above pointed out, he only cares about science, and the experiments he wishes to perform. Isn't the theory that Marwyn and Doran controlled the Brave Companions, Qyburn included?Also judging by Qyburns methods I'm guessing the process of "saving" Clegane would have been very unpleasant, so thats a big serving of revenge right there.Yes, and in the name of science, pragmatic Qyburn might experiment on Cersei also, if he finds himself in such situation, when something happen to her, for example ...Literally minutes may have passed between those moments for all we knowIf this was the book - sure, but this is the show. The show has thrown out all of the rules of succession. Remember Ellaria and the Sand Snakes are ruling Dorne, there isn't any logic when it comes to inheritance anymore.You can be king of the north while having someone else be lord of winterfell though.As King in the North, Jon can basically legitimise himself and become the true heir. It makes more sense for Ed to send bran to winterfell escorted by his own men.Sure, but Bran is the heirYeah good point.    
  
My reading of the books seems like so long ago and now that GRRM has dragged his feet for the next book I have no interest in reading whatever comes next. I no longer care as the tv show is now canon -- and a simplified whatever is convenient for the directors pocketbook it seems. I think the whole story has been rushed and 'serialized' now on tv to the extent that it may be a totally different story from what the books tell.Well, no, not really. If we're following the rules of inheritance Jon is the absolute last in line for both.

If we're going by biggest army, Sansa should be Queen. If we're going by the laws of succession Bran is without question both KitN and the Lord of Winterfell. Jon will remain king though, simply because the line of succession means nothing in the show anymore.ah, good answerI doubt it,  he will never do that. He is basically the biggest white knight in GoT.Yes but'his honor would tell him to step aside for BranHe was declared king. It's sort of like the kingsmoot, his family doesn't come into the picture Edd needs what few men he has at the wall - who's going to be 'the Olly guy' controlling the elevator cable?Power residues where men believe power residues. Jon was made King, a separate office from Lord of Winterfell. Jon has no claim on Winterfell sure, but Bran has no claim on the title KitN.I'm sure he will, and Bran will refuse.I agree. Jon Snow is King, and Sansa is the Lord/Lady of Winterfell, and probably his heir (and vice versa). If Bran returns, he ascends to Lord of Winterfell, and Jon's heir. The King in the North and the Lord of Winterfell aren't linked anymore. King Jon Snow is based out of Winterfell the same way King Stannis was based out of Castle Black.Not exactly, he was crowned because he had Stark blood, any ship captain can compete in a Kingsmoot. But now that he is crowned Bran falls behind him.Jon's personal honor would deem that he would decide to allow Bran to rule- the rightful heir[removed]A conundrumI don't think so. The Northern Lords had resubmitted to Southron rule under the Boltons. With the end of the Boltons, they switched their allegiance to Jon *personally*, because of his bravery and leadership, not because he had the best claim to Winterfell. All the Lords praise does diddly-squat to change his position in the line of succession to Winterfell, where as a bastard, he has none. True born sons > daughters > legitimized bastards. With the return of Bran, he would displace Sansa as the Lord of Winterfell, and be Jon's heir to King in the North.Not really. He let Sansa keep winterfell. So he'd give that to bran, but he's still king.[removed][removed][removed][removed][removed]This comment chain has been removed for being a slapfight. Please see our subreddit civility policy in the sidebar and [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules). [removed]I'm just gonna repost something I saw on Race for the Iron Throne because that sums up the politics of this show in a nutshell:

>HOWEVER, I was infuriated by how the Jon vs. Sansa storyline played out, chiefly because Benioff and Weiss don’t really understand politics and thus have created an entirely unconvincing portrait of what political savviness looks like. A real political savant would know that you don’t bring up a major disagrement with one of your main allies (indeed, your nominal superior) in the meeting itself – that actually does undermine them – you do it at the pre-meeting so that you can get the lay of the land ahead of time without showing public divisions.

>Moreover, Benioff and Weiss seem to think that political skill can essentially be boiled down to Machiavellian ruthlessness and sarcasm – hence Sansa speaking of Cersei as a positive example for some unearthly reason, focusing her efforts at Jon to tearing down his arguments, and her snark-off with Littlefinger. However, Sansa entirely fails to accomplish her objectives, because she’s not actually trying to persuade anyone, which is what actually politically skilled people try to do. Equally infuriatingly, Benioff and Weiss seem to think that to be good is to be unintelligent – Ned and Robb were stupid apparently (which, as you can imagine given that a huge amount of my corpus is arguing the absolute opposite, did not go over well) – and so Jon has to do the dumb, honorable thing with soaring strings behind him to indicate that we’re supposed to approve of Lawful Stupid when they’ve just spent a bunch of words trying to convince of the opposite.Ned died because he didn't realize how stupid it was to tell Cercei he knew her secret, not because he wasn't a politician.  Robb died because he was stupid to trust Frey after he insulted him, or because he broke the promise in the first place. Not because he was or wasn't a politician.  Sansa was absolutely right.  Jon can't be stupid.> Also the notion that if you are good and honorable person, you are not a smart player.For ex. Sansa sighting the example of Ned and Robb to Jon.Ned did some dumb things in King's Landing not because he was honorable but because he was not a good politician.There is no correlation between the two.Robb would have defeated Tywin's army and won the war if he had not done the dishonorable thing

Two things:

1. All the people that did things by the book got killed for it. Ned straight up told Cersei his plan because he assumed she would abscond with the children instead of face Robert's wrath that the royal kids were not his. Instead, he was betrayed, captured, the confessed to crimes he didn't commit and was betrayed again and killed. 

2. Robb's honorable thing was marrying Jeyne Westerling/Talisa. Got him killed. 

i don't know about how you arrived at the conclusion that owning people in conversations is a stand-in for politics. if you've spent time in the business world this comprises 90% of all politics there, too. then occasionally people defer based on job title, but usually it's just about asserting yourself.Ned did know it was stupid, but he couldn't help but do it because of how Lyanna and Jon still plague his every waking moment. And Robb wasn't stupid at all to trust a custom practiced for thousands of years. >Ned died because he didn't realize how stupid it was to tell Cercei he knew her secret, not because he wasn't a politician.

To be fair, Ned really wanted Cersei to save herself and her children . He saw what Robert was capable of allowing (which traumatized him) and he didn't want that. 

 If Cersei had done what Ned wanted, she and her children would've probably lived to an old age. Ned wasn't being stupid so much as soft. Ned was too kind.Even if Sansa is right(which she is not).Raising her point in front of other is stupid.What Jon did was the right thing to do and the show made that pretty clear.Robb created greater dishonor for himself by marrying Jeyne/Talisa than not marrying them would have created.  Ned didn't die because he was "good," he died because he was haunted by what happened to Lyanna and couldn't help but try and protect a woman and her child.

The honor of the Stark family is why the Boltons cannot hold the North. It's why the gains the Lannisters and Freys made with the Red Wedding are falling apart hardly a year later. The idea  that the books present honor as a bad thing is a terrible misreading of the books.1.Ned would still have gotten away with all this if Sansa hadn't gone to Cersei.His honor didn't get him killed.  
2.Robb could have avoided all this by just not having sex with her.Marrying Jeyne/Talisa was honorable in the eyes of Robb but dishonorable from the point of view of freys and other stark allies.
  
I have no idea about business world.I was comparing it to the politics of former seasons.Like questioning Jon in front of all the other Lords is the worst thing you can do to him.She is asserting herself but it is shitty politics if you want others to respect your house.Now they look like inexperienced children to other lords.Cersei was Queen of the Seven Kingdoms, Ned was some has-been petty lord from the barren wastelands of the frozen North, whose only claim to anything close to "power" was that he grew up in the same castle as the King.

As far as Cersei saw it, anyway.  Ned was never any real threat to her.  She simply planned on just sending him on his merry way to the Wall and that would be the North done.
He was stupid to think that Cercei would take his offer and just get out of town with the kids. He had no clue who she really was. He was stupid to think that others would react as he would. Stupid no matter how you look at it.I never said that Jon wasn't right, I think he was. I also don't think Sansa should have disagreed with him in front of everyone. I was talking about when she told him he can't be stupid like Ned and Robb. In that, she is absolutely right. He can't be stupid and underestimate people.You can't really blame Robb for having sex with Jeyne. He had just found out his brothers were dead, he thought his sisters were dead, or good as dead, his father was dead, he felt alone in the world and needed companionship. Ned wouldn't have gotten away with anything.  Cersei had Robert's murder expedited once Ned told her he knew.  Ned's idea of playing the game was showing his opponent he had four of a kind, and that they should fold.  He had no idea Cersei was holding a royal flush.Ned wasn't getting away with anything with little Joff in the picture.  Mama couldn't even control him.Petty Lord??? Ned Stark was a petty Lord??? 

Ned Stark was arguably the most powerful fucking person outside of Tywin in all of Westeros.Petty lord? Ned owned half of Westeros. He was one of 7 Lord Paramounts and he was one of the stronger ones. Only the Tyrells and the Lannisters were stronger. And Ned Stark was connected by family to the Arryns and Tullys and he held the heir to the Iron Islands on top of being an ally to the Baratheons so in actuality he was the strongest lord.

Ned had an enormous amount of power.

>She simply planned on just sending him on his merry way to the Wall and that would be the North done.

Wouldn't have worked. Robb would've still gone south to rescue Sansa.Not necessarily. Ned didn't know that Cersei was just about to help Robert kill himself.

If Robert didn't get himself killed, Ned would've been fine.

It was really bad luck that blindsided Ned.Ned was planning to leave Kings Landing with his children forever for good and would have done it if Sansa hadn't tell his plan to Cersei.I don't think Cersei ever considered Ned dangerous or powerful.Ned's bannermen can barely rally 20,000 footsoldiers.  Cersei's dad can rally more than double that.

If Ned had an enormous amount of power, what's he been doing with it for the past 20 years?  Hasn't been seen or heard from since Roberts Rebellion.  Cersei didn't fear anything about the North other than that it's hard to siege.

>Wouldn't have worked. Robb would've still gone south to rescue Sansa.

Doubtful, but it's alternative reality stuff.  Sansa was betrothed to Joffrey, Ned had confessed his crimes and being shown mercy.  Young boy starting a war to save his older sister, who by all accounts doesn't need saving, would be a hard sell.
But his best friend was still going to be murdered and his throne stolen by the Lannisters.  Ned never cared about dying, he cared about honour vs dishonour.

"You think my life is some precious gift to me?  That I would trade my honour for what, a few more years of this?"She did in the books. I don't remember in the show, but she definitely did in the books. She voiced her worry about it.Cersei isn't the brightest bulb>Ned's bannermen can barely rally 20,000 footsoldiers. Cersei's dad can rally more than double that.

Ned can rally much more than that but because of the North's vast size, they're slow to mobilize and Robb was in a hurry.

>If Ned had an enormous amount of power, what's he been doing with it for the past 20 years? Hasn't been seen or heard from since Roberts Rebellion. Cersei didn't fear anything about the North other than that it's hard to siege.

Because Ned isn't ambitious. He just wants to live the rest of his life in the North. 

>Doubtful, but it's alternative reality stuff. Sansa was betrothed to Joffrey, Ned had confessed his crimes and being shown mercy. Young boy starting a war to save his older sister, who by all accounts doesn't need saving, would be a hard sell.

Ned is going to tell Robb the truth about Joffrey. Robb isn't going to let Sansa marry a bastard of incest.

Plus Renly & Stannis are going to be rebelling soon after and the Riverlands still need saving. 

The north can rally much more than Robb's 20,000, but as it turns out Robb is in a little bit of a rush trying to rescue his captive dad from certain death and all. He left behind a ton of men when he marched south. Ned ruled a peaceful North so loyal to him that they still fight in his name years after he died. I'd say he did pretty good. Interesting that you gave Sansa a 9 in the books. Why is that? What makes her so safe?

Also why would you think Brienne has a full 10 in the show? I think she's killable
Dany's thick plot armor is one of the reason for which I found Essos storyline a little bit boringif the show has one last WTF twist left in it, Dany will get killed--for good.

the fan outrage would be immense after all the buildup and this would really make the show infamous. 

in addition, it would mean that D&D are really making a show that has stakes (also could mean that she dies in the books), as lately every semi-important character can dodge death and come back from the dead whenever the plot calls for it.

* Hound
* Jon
* Arya
* Beric
* Tormund
* Bran
* Tyrion
* Dany

these are just off the top of my head. if you tally up the number of times they've escaped from impending doom only to come back stronger, it boggles the mind that in a story where we've been taught that no one is safe, they are *all* safe. someone's gotta go. if it's Dany this show will go down as top 3 i've ever watched.The only ones I think truly have plot armor, at least for now, are Jon, Dany and Tyrion. Maybe Bran. Anyone else could die without dramatically changing the main story.I know that characters on the show will die, but there there is only show much time left to kill characters. Characters just have to survive for like 12 more episodes. There also needs to be some characters left alive in the background, and between lack of time, lack of motive, and scenery issues I think Brienne will survive, simply because I do not think they are going to allow the White Walkers to win.

Book Sansa is much safer from White Walkers, I think Littlefingers plan is to make her the Lady of the Vale by marrying Harry the heir, in addition to her claims on the North. Then Harry will die and Littlefinger will attempt to marry her. Unless the unraveling of Littlefinger's plan gets her killed, I think she is safe, simply because only Cirsei is the only person who wants her dead no matter what.Completely agree with you. In the entire 61 episodes I never felt that she may die. I am also pretty sure she will survive to S8E6.I would love for GoT to have a non-obvious conclusion. I don't think it will happen, but it'd be great. The books have a far greater chance of providing one last unexpected plot twist.Well out of the big three, I think it's probable that one may die a hero. Then out of the rest I think some characters are going to slip through the cracks, like Varys. They don't have a lot of screen time, there is little chance his death would be heroic and so logistically, short of Dany being wiped out, there is little reason to kill him.I agree. The other characters seem very expendable. Dany is a villain. She will realize the error of her ways near the end of the show and she will sacrifice herself to save the world from the others. Anything that portrays Dany as bad is not very welcomed here now. But yes, the theory is plausible but I don't think it will ever happen in the show. It is too late to change one of the 3 main characters personality. You're basically right but Jon will also be this type of reversed villain. As will Bran and Arya and Tyrion, the whole original hero squad, all villains. 

Jaime will be the hero who opposes them. funny thought Jon Snow fans wants him to be hero number 1 so they comes up with Dany villian theory all time
Exactly. At the end Dany will redeem something. I cannot foresee she will go straight do good. Is it too late though? It could also happen to Jon too, all at the last moment too. We've been expecting this battle against the "evil" intentionally named "Others" for a while. A misguided war, two teenage tyrants.Could be a little bit late. But could be in right time. The aura the wardrobe. Any person can snap anytime regardless of buildup.Bran and Arya are the clean ones. Based from past actions from Dany and Stark kids, Dany is the most probable. Tyrion is GRRM's favorite and he will be crucial on something big.Funny, I think they'll both become monsters, religious prophets in the eyes of their followers, who will follow them in their misguided wars.Not a Jon Snow fan. But a story fantasy perspective.You don't think she's still serving the god of death?She learned how to take and wear faces before she left the Faceless Men. She has trained in doing whatever it is they do to make the face of a dead person wearable.  Maisie already answered this:

http://i.imgur.com/cS5WGIs.jpgshe's fully trained and she was let go on purpose. killing the waif was her last test.

she said she was going home, but didn't explicitly say she was out of the order.In season 6 didn't she learn how to properly cut off faces?In defense of the show, I think it's worth noting that at the start of the scene they discuss Jaime's mood/feelings. I think those lines are meant to inform us that Jaime has been brooding for some days and that his anger or sadness has happened off camera.Sometimes it frustrates me how obviously D&D play favorites with characters. Cersei herself seems vastly more competent than she was in the book and Jaime has been reduced from a character with a developing arc to an acessory for her, so I can understand your complaint OP.The actor playing Jaime said that for 2 seasons now, he has the impression his character arc starts all over again each season. Also, this reportedly lead to friction between him and D&D.Mark my words, Jaime will kill Cersei. Queenslayer I just wish they added Moonboy in this season at least. I want to hear him say *that* line.I think they're trying to show the emotional complications of a man who's slowly seeing the woman he has loved for over 30 years, for who she really is. It's not going to be an instantaneous split, it will weaken, he'll cling to hope, and then finally he'll realise it's over and can't be saved. 


The complexity of the situation isn't being conveyed very well in the shows writing, I think the actors are doing well with what they've been given though. Yes, they have, but, his arc is due for a change, hopefully. He's not that soft or stupid in the books, at least.I think you mean "sympathetic" rather than "compentent".  Her kids are dead, she's all alone, and she is about to get played by Captain Jack Sparrow.  

She is making, in principle, the same mistake her book version makes: confusing brutality for power.  

I agree that Jaimie's arc is frustrating.  I believe that this is a direct consequence of not having PoVs to show inner thoughts.  Theoretically, this season should show exactly that arc, and relieve us book readers.i just keep thinking that it will be Arya using his faceI believe so too. But straight away going from "whatever you say mam" to "killing you now" will be interesting.Maybe, but if they handled it the way the books handed it, it would make much more sense, and stay true to Jaime's character. Agreed. The Look"that he gave cersei last season was supposed to mean something."

Let's hope for an awakening soon.Perhaps I was wrong in saying "vastly more competent" but last season really did gave me that impression with her taking care of her political enemies in KL with one move.Unfortunately, they *can't* handle it like the books did.  We get PoVs in the books, and that just does not translate well to film.  Perhpas they could have invented some new conflicts on the road that would have shown an increasing emotional distance to Cersei, but I'm pretty sure those scenes would have felt unnatural.

The best we can hope for now is that we get increasing tensions between them in each scene that they share, until the relationship breaks.No doubt that it (the wildfire party) was effective at killing off most of her enemies.  Unfortunately, it has probably created twice as many enemies as it destroyed.

That's what I mean: she is confusing brutality for power.  I agree with you. But it was totally possible that they could have had Jaime at Riverrun burning Cersei's letter begging for help after all the trouble he had, mentally, dealing with those that Cersei slept with. Him being at Darry and finding truth in what Tyrion told him would've had made the strain between him and his sister feel more long term ( as it's done in the books) Nikolai is actor who also understands that his character is being limited emotionally every season. If the show has it come out as some random surprise with no foreshadowing backing his decision other than a angrily confused looked at the end of season 6, I'll be annoyed. But your right; the best we can hope for are increasing tensions at this point. > they could have had Jaime at Riverrun burning Cersei's letter begging for help 

Sure.  But that would have come across as rather sudden and arbitrary.  This is what I was talking about: in the books, we see Jaimie's thoughts change slowly and organically.  The tearing up of the letter is a natural consequence of that process.  

In order to do the same thing in the show, they would have had to produce some artificial conflicts so that we could see on film what we were able to read directly from his thoughts in the books.  I'm not claiming that this would be impossible to do, but I suspect that it would have felt forced.

I thought it was a stupid line too. Whether it's supposed to be, that the Archmaester is supposed to come across as nonsensical, or not I think it was a stupid line. 

The whole point is that Sam is concerned about how to beat the others just as they were once beaten *before the wall went up* as he doesn't feel the wall will be enough (and indeed won't be). There was no wall last time, knobhead. 

Stupid, stupid line. Dumb either way.A couple options:

 
1.) It's a mistake 


2.) Because the timeline is extremely unclear this maester thinks the Wall was there before the Long Night 


3.) The maesters know something about the timeline we don't 


4.) He just meant people kept on survivingI took "the Wall has withstood it all" more to mean "humanity prevails" than "the great ice Wall will keep those whitewalkers out so don't you worry".

Archmaester was basically telling Sam that the world is not his to save and to get on with his chores.  hmm. i don't remember the scene exactly, but if it's stated like that it's definitely a big flub.

i'm sure they meant to say that the Maesters and Oldtown survived everything. but yes, major error if true.Ack that makes me so angry. What's the point of having knowledge if you refuse to use it to help others?Lots of people have theorized this before, but aside from the fact that I don't think Arya is heading south really, that she'll prob run into Nymeria and decide to go home, thematically this just falls flat.

Jaime has to be the one to kill Cersei for the payoff to matter in both their stories. For Cersei, it's a huge shock to see the younger brother she'd never expect to actually be the valonqar (which is also why none of the other "little brother" valonqar theories make sense, like Euron, Bran, the Hound, etc). For Jaime, it's going to be a huge moment, similar to killing the Mad King, where it's the realm v his honor, and also, more importantly, I think we'll end up seeing the psychological turmoil the act of killing Cersei will do to Jaime. If it's not really Jaime and just Arya, it's not as good as a payoff for Jaime's story.No.I find it funny how much theorizing there is over the valonqar in the show when the show didn't include the valonqar prophecy.It'd probably be easier for Arya to impersonate a servant girl, and I think Jaime killing Cersei is way more GRRM style-- I think the Nymeria theory leading Arya home is more plausible. The Lannister troop encounter seems to be a healing opportunity for Arya and a chance for her to look at her situation with a fresh perspective. There might even be a bit of foreshadowing when she tells the men she's going to KL to kill Cersei and they all laugh, its so absurd to say out loud that to them it must be a joke.Sound good but I don't think Arya is going to Kings Landing, yes she said it but what if something changes her mind, like knowing Sansa an Jon are in Winterfell, I also think is to early on this season for Cersei to die, if Arya kill her in Ep 2 or 3, what is going to happen with Kings Landing, Dany is going to take it without fighting? I don't think so... before Cersei dies she need to confront Dany and Jon. Cersei will die, but not in Arya' hands, maybe Arya can kill Littlefinger, he is not in her list but did a lot of damage to the Starks.Just noIt did, didn't it? It was part of the prophecy that said all her children would dieAlso the soldiers talked about their families, I think that's why Arya didn't kill them, they make Arya think about her own family and that plus nymeria or knowing her siblings are in Winterfell can change her mindWe only have 6 more episodes this year; I would think it would take her an episode or 2 just to get there and make plans. Maybe happening in episode 6 before whatever happens north of wall in episode 7. I'm just spit ballin...Yup, I think Arya will head North, and kill LF with the VS catspaw dagger.Nope. I went back and checked a few months ago. They cut the valonqar part of it.The dagger the guy who tried to kill Bran had? Why that one in particular?There are photos of Maisie Williams with the dagger.Oh, I haven't been looking at all the promo material.

I guess we'll see what she does then!Also I think the dagger itself might have some kind of historical significance considering it occupied half of the page Sam was looking at in that book.Wasn't there a scene somewhere with the KL throne room being covered in snow? They could make it pretty far south.While I believe it's Jaime I have often considered that it may be Stannis. 

> Cersei: Will the **king** and I have children?

> Maggy: Oh, aye. Six-and-ten for **him**, and three for you. Gold shall be their crowns and gold their shrouds, she said. And when your tears have drowned you, **the** valonqar shall wrap his hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you.

The line is said in context of who Cersei will marry. She asks if she will have children *with the king* and the answer is given in context of *him*. Could likely be *his* little brother.

My heart says Jaime but I think Stannis is a strong candidate.  

Could even be GRRM's "big twist" that the show can't do. It's Jaime. Because sometimes the square peg just has to fill that square hole.That would be nice, but is highly unlikely. I believe Danny will attack KL way before the White Walkers have the chance to move past The TwinsI might be wrong, but I think she asked to have him burned and his ashes spread over the former site of the Sept where the rest of his family were buried.Now I need this to happen more than anything. I take your tinfoil and give you an upvote!Guys, it has been released yesterday:

http://beautifuldeath.comit has to be the dead Freys.   
  
Most likely shadow figure walder frey holding wine cup up in the upper center with other dead shadow figures on the floor, lower forefront with red blood and red (gold) wine color dripping everywhere.    
  
i see this questions a lot, is the artist having trouble or trying to get a fan consensus? 
  
The father and daughter that the Hound buries. The scene of him digging the graves would look great.What is hound may never die. No seriously, that'd be perfect. In the trailer we saw the Hound in a warm place with sword in his hand (watch Alt Shift X trailer 2 i guess breakdown video to rewatch it).
As we saw the brotherhood fight with Jon against the Undead I suppose this happens in 7x6 as a big "battle".
As he is going north now he (or the brotherhood with him) might go south to Kings Landing for whatever reason (maybe they want convince Cersei of the real threat). And then there will be the Mountain and the Hound (possibly in the dragonpit which these singers mentioned, in the trailer it didn't look like rest of KL) and we get the fuckin CLEGANEBOWL! Prepare the HYPE!

If it happens I think just in 7x7 as 7x6 will be the fight against the Undead.In his vision he saw a mountain. 

He reborn in fire

Gregor reborn in ice (he's kinda a wight)

Song of Ice and Fire = CleganeBowlAnd I hope by then the Hound will fight with a sword which is on fire!It almost appears that the war is over before it started. Cersei is cold and extremely dismissive of Jaime, but seems to warm to Euron, despite her initial refusal of his wedding proposal.If I recall correctly bloodraven was its last known owner I was disappointed when I saw that the sword was probably just regular steel. Visenya is my favourite character in the ASOIAF world, seeing someone again wield Dark Sister would make my millennium. Exactly. But if they are concerning themselves with that in the show then they don't seem to have had BR bring it with him to the cave. I can't imagine that we are going back there. Have you read *The Rogue Prince* & *The Princess & the Queen*? Dark Sister gets some action in them. At least in the books, if Bloodraven didn't take it to the Wall (& really, why would Egg let him, especially if they didn't recover Blackfyre in the Third Rebellion?), then it was perhaps most likely lost at Summerhall.They also haven't really explained who he is in the show I don't think Aegon would willingly let him take it to the wall either. I wonder if we'll ever see the two swords in the last two novels?Very good point. And Brynden taking it surreptitiously is perhaps too much of a stretch. He was obviously adept with glamours, but once arrested for murdering Aenys, he would've been stripped of all arms (including Dark Sister if he had it on him) before being put into the Black Cells. I doubt he could've glamoured the sword down to something say as small as jewelry, which he probably would've also been relieved of anyway.

Well, there's a somewhat popular theory that Illyrio had Blackfyre in one of the chests that he had which were taken by Duck & Haldon back to the Shy Maid with Tyrion. Before *Dance* was released, GRRM read the chapter in question at a con, but it included mention of a sword that was later cut from the published chapter. And of course, Illyrio has had long time dealings with the pro-Blackfyre Golden Company. Also, it's widely theorised that Serra was a Blackfyre descendant in the female-line (or far less commonly, Illyrio himself).

So somehow, Illyrio ended up with Blackfyre (perhaps from the Golden Company itself) & JonCon will give it to Aegon to lend him further legitimacy.So Heres the knights oath

Knight: "I offer my services [Lord's name]. I will shield your back and keep your counsel and give my life for yours if need be. I swear it by the Old Gods and the New."


Lord: "And I vow that you shall always have a place by my hearth, and meat and mead at my table. And I pledge to ask no service of you that might bring you dishonor. I swear it by the Old Gods and the New. Arise."

And based of the Aftermath Jorgen Chernoff line

Lord:"Do you swear to serve House [Your Name] with your hand, heart and voice?"
Leige: "I do," Jorgen answers. "My children will serve [Your Holding] as men-at-arms and handmaidens. Neither they nor I will rule here."
Lord: "Rise, as a courtier in the service of House [Your Name]."I find it funny they just kind of shrug off the death of the entire Frey household.I think the cleganebowl showed in trailer is Arya disguised as HoundUnsername checks outGiven the circumstances, she might believe that someone just hired a Faceless Man.Arya is older than 10 in the show, but yeah, definitely.

I doubt she would believe them, though.I see what you did there.Technically Aerys had already lost it by the time Varys was hired. The Defiance of Duskendale was the big tipping point for Aerys. Varys didn't help though. He fed the paranoia of an already paranoid Aerys. It's Obara and the rest of the Sand Snakes... or at least one or two Snakes. He may kill one or two... Either way, Obara Sand will feel Cersei's justice. Tormunds member Dragon BinderTyrion's headHighgarden. The main thing they need right now to fund a war is food/resources. With Olenna gone escourting Dany around, I would think the place is not as well-guarded with the rest of the Tyrell family hierarchy murdered.I was under the impression it would be his monster cock...     
    
In all seriousness, I hope it is the hornGendry.

Remember this post.I think it will be Ellaria/Sand Snakes since they're the ones responsible for Myrcella's death. He will probably kill them (or at least one of them) and offer her proof of such. Or maybe take one captive to bring back to KL with him. I definitely think it will be a person/blood and not an object tbough.    


I would have said he would go after Tyrion since I'm sure that would be a gift Cersei would love, but it seems very unlikely that he will have a chance to get near him. And we established that Jaime is probably taking the Lannister army west o the Resch to deal with Olenna/Tyrells to secure food and supplies and cut out an enemy. That leaves just the Dornish and other Greyjoys as relevant parties and I don't see why Cersei would care about Yara or Theon. Though it is possible he might capture back some more of the Ironborn ships too. a Sand Snake, probably. So Cersei can get revenge for Myrcella. 

Or Theon/Yara? But Cersei cares less about them.Tough to say, but I'm guessing it's blood. In the order of probability from most to least I would say this:

Someone who Cersei think's helped kill Joffery/Tommen(The Sand Snakes/Obara/Olenna/Etc)

An item


The Corpse of a dragon


In the description for episode three it says that Cersei returns a gift. It's likely Eurons, which leads me to think that the gift is a hostage. Maybe they'll throw in the horn. I doubt it thoshe wasn't seen with dany's posse[removed]How would Euron know about Gendry? And how would it help Cersei win the war and stay in power?Oh shit. That could actually be it. It could be another rickon just an easy way to get rid of a character.Ellaria would make sense... makes the yara/ellaria make out sesh + the yara/euron water battle makes sense Well I guess well find out soon enough. Euron and his thousand ships that he magically pulled out of his ass. [She's with Ellaria in the war room in Dragonstone in episode 2's preview](http://i.imgur.com/GP8QSsM.jpg)I said what I said. Mark my words.Rickon was always destined to be killed in an unceremonious manner after a long, drawn out story. I mean... his dog was named "Shaggydog" afterallThis is such a weird version of the story, this show. It's almost as if the Greyjoys are the only people who have ships anymore and they can build a hundred of them every few days. 

No Manderley fleet, no Redwyne fleet, the Lannister fleet was destroyed in the Greyjoy Rebellion and never rebuilt, the royal fleet was all destroyed in the Battle of the Blackwater with Stannis' ships and his sellsails....

Where are all the other naval powers?  And for fucks sake... how many Ironborn **are there**, for all the hundreds of ships Yara and Theon stole *and* the thousand at King's Landing!?  Is there anyone left on the islands or are they all on ships right now?Forget dragons and blood magic, Euron pulling an entire fleet out of midair is the real magic. Cersei mentioning that she had gifted the iron born timber or flax would have at least made it believable, instead Euron rocks up out of nowhere looking like a lost Nickleback roadie with a smart mouth. ooooh, thanksAll Euron needs to win the war is twenty good ships.This is how I felt with Feast. I loved my re-read of feast. The first read I liked some parts and disliked others but the second read it was so good to me for some reason.The Theon chapters alone make it #1 for me, but there's a ton of other great stuff.Nothing can top the roller coaster of the first 3 books.  It was just a tight, well written journey./u/BryndenBFish has said many times it's his favorite book of the series. It's a close second for me. Both AFFW and ADWD, really. But mostly AFFW right now, I think.

ADWD is so good though, I loved the parts about Dany and Meereen. It's the book I went through the fastest because I couldn't stop reading it.When I reread the books I usually skip some chapters (Brienne searching for Sansa for example). But I always read through the whole ADwD. Like, when drogon jumps into the fighting pit and Dany has to fucking whip him into submission. So sad that it wasn't nearly as cool in the show...I love them all equally. 

I will say that the Winterfell drama is certainly the most sophisticated plotline so far. Please read the blog post Winterfell Huis Clois. 

The thing about Dance is that it literally has the end cut off. I think in a way this almost makes it better because you have to really analyze it to see where its going. But it makes it frustrating. I prefer ASoS, but GRRM's writing is better in ADwD.  In my opinion, his writing has improved with every book.  Can't wait for WoW.1b at worst but ASOS, I mean lady Stark releases Jamie he then meets Brianne, loses his hand, and starts his redemption arc! King Robb falls in love, both Robb and Lord Edmure get married, the red wedding, Tyrions as hand. The battle of the Black water, Jon north of the wall , Ygritte, then becomes lord commander, dany buys her unsullied, takes Merren,  and that is just the start there is so much more.It's also my favourite book in the series. I love the characters and stories. QM's story is very underrated and is one of my favourites in the series. I would say it's my second favorite for all the same reasons. I don't understand the hate on here!The only things that really held FFC from the same level of greatness as ADWD to me were Brienne, Arya and Sam's POVs which I felt just dragged a shit ton (even though Arya only had like three chapters, it felt like it went on for eternity). Otherwise it would've been tied as my favorite. I loved watching Cersei's gradual downfall, Sansa beginning to play the game and like I had already said, the entirety of the Dorne and Iron Island POVs. Instead it turns to heroic Drogon saving Dany and she just steps on like a fucking messiah....sigh. TWoW*Tyrion being a Hand and Blackwater actually happened in ACOK. But I agree ASOS is my favourite.Yeah, those were great! I get what you're saying too, but I found I really liked Brienne and Sam's POV. It was different but nice.Killing only dany's enemies and none of her people... That's basically the scene that made me lose hope on the show...You're that guy!I did admittedly love the last Brienne chapter with the Brotherhood's re-introduction but yeah idk I just felt like her story could've been condensed to two or three chapters like some of the other POVs. I didn't feel like there was enough actual justification by Martin in giving Brienne as many chapters as he did. 

Different strokes for different folks though, as the old saying goes. I can see why people think her POV is underrated, as she does surround herself with a colorful cast of characters like Hyle Hunt and it is pretty neat exploring the aftermath of the war and its effect on the small folk. > for him to kill Bronn 

Yeah like that is going to happen. More likely Bronn will just KO the kid.They are allowed to yield.  Most knights would yield before dying, whilst the smallfolk slaughter each other in the heat of battle.

I think Bronn would accept Podrick's yield.everyone who goes north with Jon is doomed. i have no clue how the Cleganebowl is supposed to happen if the Hound is 6 feet under or a wight.Sam will get caught stealing books or after finding something that the maesters don't want to be public knowledge and they kill Sam him knowing some crucial piece of information that could turn the tide of the war for dawn but instead loses his head or is locked in a cell below the CitidaleDavos dying protecting Lyanna Mormont, he wasn't there to save Shireen, he couldn't save his sons. It would be heartbreaking and bittersweet if he could save a precocious kid at the cost of his own life. If Theon actually just dies/is executed without doing anything more to redeem and become "himself" again in the novels. He's been through so much, he deserves either a happier or at least more significant end to his story.   


Or if Davos just dies at all. If anyone at all deserves to survive the whole thing, it's probably our beloved Onion Knight. All zombie cleganebowl confirmed!!!! 
Wight Sandor vs NegaMountain!!!just imagine them both shuffling around each other groaning about braiiins

i can see this happening in the show to save CGI budget or something absurd
I also smoked before watching, but, I think it would be extremely stupid for them to do such a thing, for obvious reasons, like the Wall does/has guarded all of the kingdoms, including themselves. It just doesn't make a lot of common sense, and Euron is crazy, but not stupid, whereas Cersei is just crazy at this point.I had the same thought and was in the same state lol

I thought the gift would be either a Dragon, dead or aliveCersei still thinks Tyrion and Sansa killed Joffrey; She has no clue that it was Olenna and Littlefingerhere is the difference: the freys murdered arya's family - they killed her mom, her oldest brother, not to mention tons of northerners and they ended the revenge campaign against the lannisters over her father's execution. they also sacked her mothers home-castle, took her uncle (i think) captive, killed her great-uncle (i think blackfish was her great-uncle, may be wrong). arya doesn't know where sansa is, but the last time she saw her she was in kings landing (and still immensely naive) so she can assume she's dead, or as good as. bran is a cripple, not to mention i believe the world at large still thinks theon killed him and rickon in winterfell. arya is deleting house frey in the way she thinks they eliminated her family - as far as arya knows she is the last stark standing

was cersei getting revenge over something as catastrophic as her house being dismantled? not quite..she wants revenge because she got caught being a cousin-fucker (which happened) and was publicly punished for it. and because she was losing control over her son (or really, the crown) to another woman. so she blew up an entire city block (or more) to in effect kill 3 people -  the sparrow, margery and lancel (for betraying her). who knows how many were in or around the sept when it blew - i am sure dozens of people would have been killed or injured by the shock-wave and debris thrown from the explosion. 

that is 2 very different levels of fucked up - arya very specifically killing a house in revenge of the starks apparent removal from the 7 kingdoms, or cersei who got caught doing something sketchy and getting revenge on a few people at the cost of who knows how many innocent by-standards and a chunk of kings landingShe didn't allow the women to drink the poison. And to set all this up (including learning to impersonate Walder) she was probably there long enough to determine which Freys were guilty.The main difference, at least for me, is that Arya is just a little girl who lost almost everything she had at young age. All her actions are based on the hatred the world has provided for her. Cersei, on the other hand, has been plotting to be in power for years. She plays the game of thrones where Arya is merely a pawn. I'd never say that Arya is the same as Cersei, as they have different objectives. One is lust for power, the other is knowing who she really is.Arya explicitly said that it was only the Frey's "that mattered", and she didn't allow the innocent women to drink the poisoned wine, because they were just that, innocent. She's not a mindless killer, and the Frey's got even less than they deserve, in my humble opinion. Poison was effective, but far too kind.I think this is something we're going to see Arya struggle with throughout this season. I think that was started with her conversation with the Lannister soldiers. The Hounds arch in the show has set the stage for "murders" having the ability to change their path. I am hoping that is what happened for Arya (maybe even under the Hound's guidance). 

Cersei to me is beyond redemption, especial with some of her actions in the books...

Edit: typo You make good points.  Maybe not as bad as Cersei's event, but I still think it's pretty closeYou make good points about the background leading up to the events.You're right that she protected the servers.  Still I find it hard to believe she knows which particular freys actually participated in the red weddingI agree Cersei is beyond rent redemption. However what Arya just did is egregious, and I find it hard to believe she can be redeemed after committing a heinous act like that.  At least, I don't think her redemption will be a convincing if it does happenThe way I see it, she had to spend time at the twins to learn Walters mannerisms and find the right moment to strike. In that time, I'm sure she learned a lot about the red wedding (as the freys are known to be prideful, probably boasted of it) she probably had a good sense of who was guilty. 

Even then, it's somewhat of a stretch to think that she was 100% accurate. Was it really more terrible than the things the Hound has done?The Hound has done some messed up things too, but I think when looking at individual events, this is way worseHe's hottest in the wall(except for Satin), reasonably hot in the north, so so in kingslanding, swipe left in dorne and reach imo.Lol I enjoyed these ramblings!The seed is strong, but the eggs are strongerHe's described as maybe looking a little bit more delicate or something when compared to most Northern men. He's even described as being shorter.

We don't know if Rhaegar was really that tall or just tall for a Targ, so Jon may have a touch of Targayean shortness.Actually, I don't know about that. Jon is noted as looking like Ned, and he probably shares a resemblance with his uncle Brandon.

Ashara Dayne was dornish, but from what we know she'd probably swipe right for both Ned and Brandon. So, this could likely also be applied to Jon. 

Jon's universally handsome. I win. :D lolololSatin is described as more pretty/beautiful than outright hot I think, but otherwise I agree
Thanks! glad someone did. EXACTLY> Targayean shortness

You know, I actually don't recall him being noted as particularly short. Good of you to point it out. I'm afraid it's simply hubris. Ebrose certainly makes sense and if I were Sam I would start to second guess my mission however, we know something neither he nor Sam knows; that the wall is in danger now that Bran has crossed south of it and bears the Night King's mark.I like where your head is going with this. However, I dont worry of the dead knocking down the ivory tower. I'm more wondering if "breaker of chains" relates to the maesters' as well. Now even more so with your post on top of the theory of the conspiracy and what you've noted on hidden/secret knowledge we saw in the episode.I like your analysis, though, I have nothing of value to add to it... [except](https://youtu.be/ELQVHb52_zk). It's possible the books about things like the long night are stored in a restricted area because they are old and fragile or rare and valuable. Boring answer, but not everything is a conspiracy.>The latter seems unlikely to me   
  
 Originally I felt like it was the contrary, and almost parallels mankind's hubris. disregarding the environment, global warming complacency etc. and they failed in anticipating a few wildcards this time around like Bran Stark and Dany.  
     
But given that Oldtown is so far south, and almost fortified all around, especially the high tower, it seems they have less to worry about from the wintery menace and perhaps have seen Westeros purge itself over and over again, and they (the citadel) always remain to tell the story over and over.    
  
But with your almost 2000 words, you are starting to making thinkThey also clearly feel the information contained in those books could be dangerous. Of course they wouldn't want any old second son from a random hedge knight-turned-lord to necessarily have access to it.It's a possibility. Although you'd think they would make a few copies of books relating to existential threats to humanity.I've kicked around the theory in my head that the Long Night/long winters happen when there's periods of extended bloodshed or blood magic.  This would explain the recurrence of the Long Night and the GEotD Long Night origin story involving the BloodStone Emperor and his betrayal of his sister, which we can assume involved a lot of blood magic. So the last Long Night happened when the Andals invaded and that the conquest stopped at the neck perhaps when the CotF created the White Walkers which can only survive in environments of extreme cold and the extreme cold moves south during the Long Night periods. They then gave the first men/early Starks the knowledge of how not to be killed by the White Walkers and this knowledge was lost to time. Or perhaps the first first man made WW we see in the show decided to subjugate his former brethren once the war with the Andals was over.

Just spitballing. Obviously long night events have been happening around Planetos for some time but it seems the White Walkers are unique to Westeros. Although there are the five forts protecting the edge of the grey waste so maybe the Others are a global phenomenon but then I don't know what to make of Bran witnessing the CotF creating the WW. 

This is a piece of undefined lore that I think will be integral to the bitter sweet ending of the SoIaF story. Those books were most likely written hundreds, even a thousand years after The Long Night when all accounts had basically faded into legend Some people think the White Walkers are coming to exact retribution on humanity for breaking an ancient agreement to not engage in certain behaviours, generally believed to be the use of blood/fire magic.

What if worship of the Old Gods, more specifically the practice of swearing oaths and doing things of note before Heart Trees, was originally *literally* showing the Old Gods/watchers that humanity wasn't resorting to blood magic? We know the Heart Trees are a network of surveillance cameras. Every act done in the name of the Old Gods is inherently a rejection of blood magic, and anything done before a Heart Tree serves as proof to the Old Gods/watchers that these people are not engaging in the dangerous use of magic. Perhaps this practice developed into a religion over time.WoaahhhhhhhIIRC, didn't Bran see a sacrifice at the Winterfell heart tree from long ago when practicing with Bloodraven in the books? 

The damn show lore stating the CotF created the WW in response to the First men throws so many wrenches into the overall timeline and lore established in the written material. Since the oldest "Long Night" origin story comes from the far East of Essos, does that mean the WW we're created back then in Essos? 

Or did the CotF simply add another cataclysmic element to a cyclic, already cataclysmic event?

Do the WW bring the cold or does the cold bring the WW? Too many damn, unanswered questions. I hope this season clears things up with Sam at the citadel and with Bran being able to rewind history. I think the problem of geography when it comes to the Others and their​ influence - like a lot of geographical problems in ASOIAF - can be solved to some extent by simply assuming Planetos is a spherical planet. That would make the current location of the Others and the fact that there are myths about them in far East Essos make more sense. 

The other issue you brought up about the show messing things up by making the COTF being the sole creators of the Others is a problem, I agree. 

I guess maybe the entities themselves can be created by magically powerful beings like the Children, but each magical race can create different sentient creatures to protect them or whatever. So, maybe dragons are not only metaphorically in opposition to the Others, but are actually the same type of entity only created by differing forces.I'm not 100% about this, but i think i remember hearing that GRRM stated that Platetos is spherical. If that's correct, its not even an assumption.The Arya scene is shit because it's completely redundant in terms of her arc, and it establishes that Arya is the most powerful human being on the planet. She wiped out an entire house effortlessly and there's no reason she couldn't do it again. Like, why bother with armies and sieges and dragons and shit? Just send the teenaged skin changer in and she can kill all the VIPs in 5 minutes. The only point you made that I feel is worth mentioning is dragonstone being abandoned. Everything else has reasonable explanations. And even dragonstone is a weak point. There are tons of unmanned castles and lands in westeros.  Though I will admit I was surprised that it was not held by someone.And how does Littlefinger know that Brienne defeated the Hound in single combat? Three people were there and none of those three are broadcasting that info.

Or did I mishear that and he actually said "Loras?" Sounded like the Hound to me.

WTF, Baelish? WTF? You got special powers, bud? You holdin' out on us? Secret Bloodraven School dropout?Man, you are thinking way too hard. You have to realise most people who watch this show are only acutely aware that books exist about these characters. Just enjoy it for what it is: a good interpretation of the books, and a great (if not currently the greatest) show on TV. I think the Walder scene was written fine. Those people have no clue about the faceless men, and Walder is their lord. Everyone at The Twins follows his orders, no guard would question a direct command. YepReally? The fact that there were no guards in or out of the Great hall is silly. Whether she walked out of the castle as Walder or Arya, major attention will be directed to her. We're supposed to accept a time skip the next time we see her, way, south of the Twins below Moat Cailin. It's strange because at this point, we have to simply imagine what happened in between. They wouldn't have done this in seasons 1-4 and the lack of concentrated focus in the show obviously would never happen in the books. Either way, I do wish that seasons 4-5 were a faithful adaptation from Feast and Dance as much as the first four seasons were quite faithful to the first three books. But atleast the show is still fun to watch, only problem is that it lost its feeling of truly well written fantasy literature that the books give. Pod and Brienne are both at the same place.The books don't matter, those three things are nonsense, not just bad. i agree. there were a ton of comments about who the house the BwB visited belonged to when the show literally showed the father and daughter character in the "previously on..." 

the world is a bit large and requires a good memory (and/or just paying a lot of attention to the lore) to sort things like this out. it's truly beyond the scope of a 1hr show. they are lucky it makes some sense at all to viewers.I'd like to see OP trying to scream for help while dying from a poison called "the strangler".  At least that's what I presume it was; if not, the symptoms were sufficiently close to Joffrey's as not to matter.  He couldn't scream for help either.  She could have ordered them somewhere or killed them prior. Or snuck out of the twins somehow.  But I agree with you and it was slightly lazy writing.So Pod is running his mouth? Or a Littlefinger spy? *suspense music*

The plot thickens.Not everyone starts to die in the same moment. People all around you are spitting blood and you don't even say "HELP A DOCTOR"? 
We are not talking about a single case here, we are talking a hundred Freys that somehow fail to alert the (at least) 200 guards they must have outside.Good chance he just finally cracked the shits with people going off topic, nagging him, criticising him and asking him stupid questions. 

I wouldn't blame him. If he was finished TWOW (which he's not, and IMO he never will, but anyway) he has said he will just announce it, immediately. No silly games, no teases, no countdowns, he'll just announce it as soon as it's done and nothing beforehand. He's been very clear on that.

So no, the books not finished, and none of his recent posts have anything to do with hinting or foreshadowing the completion of the book. He has probably disabled comments so he doesn't have to read endless posts from people about the show.I'm sure that with GoT starting back up the number of inquiries on the book series skyrockets. Probably just easier to deal with this way. I think TWOW is closer than we think, but I think they comments are disabled because the show is back and he doesn't want to be inundated with vigorous interest and countless questions on all things GOT and ASOIAF.>So no, the books not finished, and none of his recent posts have anything to do with hinting or foreshadowing the completion of the book.

My post says the same thing as this, but your wording makes it sound like you are disagreeing with me...not sure why you are being downvoted, he seems to rewrite entire books multiple times. i have given up hope for the series ever actually ending and consider the TV show canon at this point. i know it's heresy.It's hilarious. Never mind the rest of my post, which is correct and true info from GRRM himself, no, let's downvote because he has an opinion about GRRM that we dislike. Lol."We have a bridge and no morals" "We stand together" is their motto afaik
It isn't mentioned in the books but it seems to be "We stand together" in the show"Make lots of kids and betray everyone" Indeed.I thought Sam was weighing his liver not his heart. Really interesting insight, kudos and thanks.i must be the only person that hates the Sam and Gilly scenes. i'm literally checking my email every time they appear on screen. Sam hasn't added anything to the story in a long while, and the latest revelation about Dragonstone is...kind of obvious.I believe Maester Ebrose's acknowledgement of the recurring Long Night and the Others to Sam shows that the Maesters know more than they're letting on.

Your character analysis of Sam is spot on. His arc this season will be about trusting his own judgement over other authorities. It'll go, 

1. Thinks the Maesters haven't considered the real threat the Long Night and the Others pose to humanity after convo with Ebrose.
2. #1 motivates his independent investigation of the Long Night and of the Others, learns surface info on dragon glass. <--(We are currently here).
3. Is founds to have accessed the restricted section and is punished for it.  This motivates him to probe deeper into the restricted section. 
4. Goes deeper into the restricted section to find older sources and finds crucial info regarding the recurrence of the Long Night, the Others or about using magic or something crazier involving the Maesters and or the hightowers
5. Gets caught during this and is expelled but it doesn't matter cuz he has the crucial info
6. Has to figure out how to get this crucial info to Jon without ravens.

Bam! 7 episodes worth of Sam material right there that exposes important world building elements. I thought it was a great intro scene for Broadbent. not unlike Tywin's stag skinning intro.  Both are seemingly mundane tasks that are just rife with symbolism.  I really like your analogy to the Book of the Dead, great stuff. I love your interpretation of the scene! Gonna have to rewatch the shit-storm.His liver yes but only when he started asking about his "quest" did he start weighing the heart.Glad you liked it.Also just remembered, someone mentioned Sam was reading a book that said dragon glass may cure the doom. If that's true he may learn a secret to saving Volantis, but that's just me being hopeful.Yes well as obvious as it may be (He said, completely oblivious to the fact that it was obvious in any way) it's not obvious to the characters. Sam has had a tie to defeating the whites ever since he killed one. Everyone in the story thinks brute force is the key to victory. Sam represents a smarter way. A way that teaches us something about ourselves. And now Jon has a reason to meet with Daenerys. 

And history will repeat itself (another sign of an intelligent characteristic might I add, since those who fail to learn from history are doomed to repeat it.) when a king from the North will bend a knee and join with a Targaryen again...or marry her depending on what camp you fall in. Without Sam the whites will inevitably win. Respect.I can see that happening for sure. Maybe if we get even darker, which is what I'm hoping for, Sam finds out that they do know something they aren't telling anyone about. And maybe they won't let him go after he has learned it.

Now that Sam has learned how to be confidant in himself and a great mind, he will have his Saruman Vs. Gandalf moment where he must fight to get back to Jon, thus proving even more that he deserves to be by his side.RemindMe! 6 weeks.Don't think I noticed that Tywin intro. Nice catch.Ha! Thanks, glad to know I could make the scene less nauseating or at least more meaningful.Ohh cool I must've missed it! It deserves another rewatch anyway lolI will be messaging you on [**2017-08-29 10:17:37 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2017-08-29 10:17:37 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nxoz7/spoilers_main_the_importance_of_samwell_tarly_and/dkdh28p)

[**3 OTHERS CLICKED THIS LINK**](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nxoz7/spoilers_main_the_importance_of_samwell_tarly_and/dkdh28p]%0A%0ARemindMe!  6 weeks.) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! dkdh2m1)

_____

|[^(FAQs)](http://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^(Custom)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^(Your Reminders)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^(Feedback)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^(Code)](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)|[^(Browser Extensions)](https://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/4kldad/remindmebot_extensions/)
|-|-|-|-|-|-|it took me someone explaining it because i am dense, but he's literally butchering a stag in the first scene he's in. quite some foreshadowingAlso there's a deleted scene of him gutting fish. Pretty sure it related to something Tully but I can't remember what the event was.i took it as a blanket reference. mainly in that dysentery is so prevalent, it has killed *so many* soldiers that the Hound after taking AP Statistics realized that statistically speaking some of them had to be better men than Beric. Hmm, I figured it was just a broad reference to men he's fought with over the years, who have died of dysentery after fighting bravely...
Reminder - The crow who posted this thread has made it a (Spoilers AFFC) thread.  This scope covers ONLY material from the books *A Game of Thrones*, *A Clash of Kings*, *A Storm of Swords*, and *A Feast for Crows*.  Any discussion of the TV show or the later books in the series must use [an appropriate spoiler tag](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/spoilertagsystem) such as (Spoilers Extended), or (Spoilers Published).
 
 To create a spoiler tag, use this code:

 \[Spoilers Extended](/s "Things happen")

 to get this:

 [Spoilers Extended](/s "Things happen")   

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*For #3 he says Galley, quite a few times, which is a type of boat. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Galley It could also be a Gallery as in where people stand or sit to view an event. The throne room Gallery is where the people stood to watch, and Gallerys would be erected with benches around tournament grounds for viewing

For #2 that one is more implied possibly. He believes his Lord Commander made the baby swap and he is sworn to his Lord Commander and the NWPig boy refers to Spotted Pate, who is a hero in several stories: http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Spotted_Pate.


I feel like Jon tells Sam his plan in AFFC, but I can't find the specific evidence for it either, so perhaps in the chapter you reference is when we get the idea that Sam was privy to the plan.


Gallery can mean two things when it comes to a castle - an outdoor roofed balcony used for patrolling the castle walls, or a corridor or room devoted to the exhibition of portraits and treasures.1. Pate is the name of a pig boy in a famous Westerosi story I'm fairly sure, I can't remember exactly and don't have the book but that's what my memory serves. 

2. I don't think the books ever explicitly have Sam swear it as the reader doesn't know the babies are switched until after they already have been, after any such oath would've been taken.

3. I'm thinking the gallery would be the first definition you mentioned rather than something more akin to an art gallery but without the book it's hard to say for sure. (1.) Right - here's the explanation:

> Spotted Pate the pig boy was the hero of a thousand ribald stories: a good-hearted, empty-headed lout who always managed to best the fat lordlings, haughty knights, and pompous septons who beset him. Somehow his stupidity would turn out to have been a sort of uncouth cunning; the tales always ended with Spotted Pate sitting on a lord's high seat or bedding some knight's daughter. But those were stories. In the real world pig boys never fared so well. Pate sometimes thought his mother must have hated him to have named him as she did.

(2.) I couldn't find Sam swearing to Jon to keep the baby switch a secret but I think we could assume at very least an implicit oath to Gilly herself - to protect her child. Plus, since Sam is plotting to continue the identity switch ruse in the Reach, it stands to reason that he wouldn't tell Alleras:

>When things are more settled here, I thought maybe the best thing for Gilly . . . I thought I might send her to Horn Hill. To my mother and sisters and my . . . my f-f-father. **If Gilly were to say the babe was m-mine . . ." He was blushing again. "My mother would want him, I know.** She would find some place for Gilly, some kind of service, it wouldn't be as hard as serving Craster. And Lord R-Randyll, he . . . he would never say so, but he might be pleased to believe I got a bastard on some wildling girl. At least it would prove I was man enough to lie with a woman and father a child. He told me once that I was sure to die a maiden, that no woman would ever . . . you know . . . Jon, if I did this, wrote this lie . . . would that be a good thing? The life the boy would have . . ."

(3.) on the topic of "galleries" (from britannica.com):

>Gallery, in architecture, any covered passage that is open at one side, such as a portico or a colonnade. More specifically, in late medieval and Renaissance Italian architecture, it is a narrow balcony or platform running the length of a wall. In Romanesque architecture, especially in Italy and Germany, an arcaded wall-passage on the outside of a structure is known as a dwarf gallery. Facing into a structure, a gallery may either be set into the thickness of a wall at ground level or be elevated and supported on columns or corbels. It would function as a communicating passage. Within an interior space a gallery may be a platform projecting from a wall, as in the example of a musicians’ gallery, or may be a second-story opening onto a large interior area, such as the gallery in a church intended to provide additional seating. 

To your "Dany wouldn't burn Dragon stone" point.

I don't think Jaime and Cersei would gamble their precious men and ships on Dany, the Mad King's daughter, the woman who broke the siege of Mereen with dragonfire, NOT burning stuff. 

Plus, as the Dornish resistance to Aegon's Conquest showed, the only tactic that has been proven to work against dragons (besides dragons of your own) is abandoning population centers and conducting guerilla warfare.         

Edit: also, Aegon only destroyed Harrenhal to make a point. You can conquer a castle with dragons short of burning it to the ground. Just burn the gates, or one section of the wall.  Or toast the commander while he's trying to rally a defense.  Or just land a dragon inside the walls, who the fuck is going to argue against that?Its only useful if you have a fleet to actually guard the waters. The crown doesn't have such a fleet. She is also beset on all sides and as such can't afford to spread herself to thin.> Where the hell did Euron go? Euron was in KL at the beginning of the episode, he would have had to sail past DS on his way to and from there.

Yeah after seeing a map of King's Landing and Dragonstone this makes no fucking sense whatsoever. There's NO WAY Dany should have been able to take Dragonstone without someone knowing. She had a massive fucking fleet and Euron would have had to sail past Dragonstone on his way into and out of KL. He would have seen her...

Also it's fucking idiotic that the Lannisters would just allow them to take it... They KNEW that's where they were headed... Why would they do nothing? 

Also Cersei rejecting Euron was also massively stupid. Rejecting his fleet is basically suicide at this point... Fuck fuck fuck so dumb. She was able to contact Euron and establish some sort of alliance. She could have easily promised him all sorts of things if he were to take his fleet and port at DS. And with the help of her Lannister army who would hold the Castle and attack from it's walls, Euron's armada would attack from it's seas.

At the very least, she could have set up a formidable road block for Dany there, and if she were to make it past all that, she could have wild fire waiting for the remaining ships at Blackwater Bay.Last season Grey Worm wanted to take the Unsullied from Mereen to reclaim Astapor and Yunkai.  Tyrion advised against it, saying without the Unsullied to protect Mereen, the city would surely fall.  How many soldiers could the Lannisters possibly have left after so much fighting?  No way would they have enough to guard both King's Landing and Dragonstone, which is why they need the Ironborn in the first place.  I mean do we actually know the distance between Dragonstone and the peninsula to the south.   Westeros is very big so that straight might be wide enough that you could not survey everything in between it.  Even passing by a matter of a few hours apart could mean no encounter would take place.  I would give them a pas on that.

But the fact that Dragonstone was just abandoned..  Like Stannis would have at least left some cleaners and servants and gate men there.  He had no idea he was not coming back.  Depends on the timelines.  Weeks or months have passed on Sam's timeline, days or weeks since Arya killed the Free, etc.  Dany could have arrived on Dragonstone after Euron had already passed by.Euron contacted her, not the other way around. And she doesn't want to seem weak and ask things of him (not very smart btw).[One estimate](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1KAqa9wwODqaFkegqf8Si6fmuE55-M-GMIj0ZmcKUFxs/edit) put its at about 100 miles by sea from Dragonstone to King's Landing, which for a slow moving fleet is maybe like a week conservatively travel time. This also means the passage to the south of Dragonstone is no more than 50 miles wide. So its unlikely even traveling tight to the coast a patrol guarding the bay (assuming they see ~12 miles all around them) wouldn't spot the massive Greyjoy fleet taking all day to travel past. If Dany arrives after Euron reaches KL there's almost no chance they don't see him leaving -- whether they choose to do anything about it is different. Why would they want to risk a sea battle against arguably the best sailors in westeros, when they're within striking distance of KL and in a fortified position? You're of course correct that based on how the timelines are set up this might be a total non-issue.The point is they were in contact. He sent her a raven. She could have replied with what I mentioned.

It's difficult to argue the exact nature of this b/c the timelines are very ambiguous. Who knows when he contacted her? Who knows how long it took before he was able to sail with a full fleet? Who knows what happened between now and then?

The show isn't really good with these kinds of details, just that things happened and people are where they are as you see them.Totally agree. The show sucks.This whole comment section feels like an r/asoiafroastme, but for good reason. Most of OP's points are pedantic and nitpicky even if a few are valid.The Season 7 premiere & the last 2-3 episodes of Season 6 were some of the best writing the show has had since Season 4. The dialogue in this episode was much better than it usually was in the recent past.

Also, I agree with pretty much everything in the character department. Especially Jaime, I don't understand why they couldn't keep his character a bit more independent, Dorne was not a great arc for him. You're spot on with Daeny, idk if it's the writing of Emilia Clarke but she hasn't shown much emotion since Season 3. There are different ways to be a powerful woman, look at Cersei's (Lena Headey) acting she's incredible. Arya's plot I'm very disengaged from since she started training at The House of Black & White. Sansa has floundered for a few Seasons.

With all that said most of those criticisms stem back from before Season 7, so I don't think you expected them to be fixed in 1 episode. Also, the show has made some very big misteps when it comes to characters imo. They are full speed ahead now though, & the Premiere should be judged on it's own merits if you're judging this individual episode (which I see you did as well).


Alot of the things you deem as plotholes 1 episode into the season seem to forget that way had a time-skip at the end of Season 6. Like Sam's baby, Jorah in Oldtown, & even perhaps the Dreadfort. 

Arya & Kings Landing makes sense, also Daeny was just a choice of embracing cinematics rather than realism which is artistic so I don't mind much.

They had to cut stuff if they didn't I could see Game of Thrones being 10 Seasons long. I don't mind Lady Stoneheart being cut, just hoped they found something better to do with Jaime. I wouldn't have minded if Dorne was simplified & more off-screen rather than botched like it was.

I agree about the pacing 100%, the pacing ever since the very end of Season 4 has been pretty bad, Season 6's story was much better than 5 but it was the fastest Season by far & with that the dialogue & character moments have suffered significantly. They made a plan for 7-8 Seasons though & they chose to stick with that which means it was just going to be rushed, it had to be & they made that choice for multiple reasons. I love the slower pacing of Game of Thrones but I understand why it's moving fast.

All that said, I disagree with damning the Season 7 premiere. While it's an overarching story & I understand being partial to previous events in the story makes sense. It's a premiere & should be judged on that, it's merits should stand on their own when doing an individual episode review.

The creators could have made the series end in 20 episodes rather than 15 but if they feel they need 15 then that's probably what I want. They're not George, their writing isn't exactly on par with his. This is all clear & if the pace is quick & still good, then so be it.


This post reminds me of Sizemore from this scene Westworld https://youtu.be/2JJnL-kEGQE To add, a lot of your criticisms are valid plot points. But I think the even far *bigger* gaffe is characterization. 

Sansa's entire presence in this episode is Olly-level terrible. Plot-wise, D&D want a Jon-Sansa conflict. Character-wise, their attempts are pure cringe.
Sansa and Jon argue over how to deal with the Karstarks and Umbers. It's a fucking disagreement over how to deal with non-personal enemies you never really met. It's a disagreement on the best logical path forward.

There's no personal investment, no emotional investment, and thus, no reason to make this a relationship dividing conflict. Sure, you might disagree, but disagreeing =/= deep conflict. You don't see Davos become a bitter personal rival of Jon cause Jon doesn't like Davos's hypothetical battle plan before Bastardbowl. Now, our heroine comes across as more petty and selfish than Cersei. Nor, is her "resentment" against Jon for becoming KitK believable. All of S6 established Jon and Sansa's relationship as close and trusting. You have [this great scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IpHppN9RVoI) where there's a pause and we're not sure how these two characters are going to interact. Then, they establish the relationship as unconditional support and love where Jon listens and respects Sansa sometimes not-deserving-of-respect opinons throughout the season. She's not an ambitious or envious person and, frankly, she doesn't give a fuck about the KitK title.

 A "He stole my claim" conflict could work for *DANY* because of her past arcs focused on the throne, ambition, and a reconquering of home, but not on Sansa whose arc has never been about power, only about home. D&D have frankly made Sansa a Dany-lite. Sansa, Dany, and Cersei even have the same overly fierce blank facial expressions of staring intensely into the distance. It seems like, for female rulers and potentially female characters, D&D only have one size fits all characterization. For Sansa, this is especially bad as she's unambitious. The reason I harp so deeply onto this Sansa-Jon problem is because I wanted to examine just one charcterization in detail, and this one was egregiously bad. 

Nor is this episode the only gaffe. In Season 6, there were so many examples of Sansa becoming out of character, and I don't blame the actress. From her not telling Jon Snow about Littlefinger (Need a weak rationalization here) to saying "You're not listening to me." when everyone had the entire season and then giving the advice ["I don't know!"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iGMkFeUkQyU), everything is so forced. 

Some solutions for creating a good Jon-Sansa conflict:

Solution #1: Sansa is the Stark most like Cat, so have her be like Cat. Sansa and Jon were the most distant siblings. He was her *half* brother. So add that sense of distance and unsure trust back into their relationship from the beginning. This also makes a lot of sense, considering her arcs in KL and with Littlefinger was all about 1) learning not to be so naive and trusting anymore and 2) becoming just like her mother.

Solution #2: Have Littlefinger aggressively request for a marriage with Sansa in return for the Vale during S6 before BtB. This gives her a real reason to hide Littlefinger's potential help and hesitate to ask for help. Also, now she's beholden Littlefinger and so can realistically be forced to act against the interests of someone she loves (Jon) as hers are now different.

Soltion #3: Have Jon marry Sansa off to Littlefinger to retain Vale support in S7. Now we have a real personal conflict. Jon's allegations lie to politically protecting the North from the Night King. Sansa cares about that too, but it's her body and life that's being sold away and she's been through terrible marriages so many times before. On a personal level, she's right in that this is a terrible unfair thing to do. On another personal level, Jon's right in that he has a greater duty to the realm. They both have reasons to disagree heavily and personally in this issue and turn it into a real conflict.

Heck, you could combine all three by having an tepid reunion between Sansa and Jon where Sansa reminds Jon of Cat. Then, Littlefinger requests Sansa's hand in marriage in exchange for the Vale troops, which Sansa then abides. Then, Littlefinger surprisingly declines the marriage, "showing he genuinely cares about her happiness and well-being", earning back her trust. Then, BOOM. Jon weds Sansa to LF through political reasons egged on indirectly by LF and suddenly Jon's now the bad guy, through the machinations of LF. Personally, I think that's a much better character arc for a Sansa-Jon conflict that not only makes sense, but is investment worthy.It's still visually spectacular but the story lines and narrative have devolved into regular mediocre television.  A lot of the dialog is cringe worthy -- the Hound reduce to saying the word 'cunt' every other sentence. 

Fantasy Shakespeare has given way to Medieval Super Hero tropes.

The writing is very weak.I felt that the killing of the entire frey family was suppose to mirror/be like the red wedding... Only that it never earns it at all. There is no shock, no build-up, no tension or twist of note. It's just lazy shock value trying to recapture an epic moment of the earlier show.My only nitpick is how did the dragons get across the narrow sea? I mean I'm sure it probably took at least 6 weeks or so to sail all that distance so did the dragons literally fly day and night for 2 months straight without resting? I don't think they can fit on any of those boats can they? Plus what are they going to eat? It's not like they can just catch hundreds of pounds of fish everyday or stock a bunch of sheep on a boat and give them one each day either? I think you did a great job on characterization aspects, this feels more and more like a super hero movie and has lost George's voice. You talk a lot about plot, but the pure writing has gone down too. Frat bro dothraki, euron and a lot of Jon's lines feel like a totally different style of writing, doesn't feel like GOT. Truth!/someone makes good points about a true fact/ itt GO BACK TO THE BOOKS THEN BOOK NERD Can we stop calling things plot holes that are actually just scenes that haven't happened yet? Not everything gets addressed in one episode..Usually the things people call pot holes aren't actually, and the "bad writing" is just the story not adhering to exactly what you would have liked to see. This kind of ultra nit picky/subjective complaining makes this sub, and the hardcore book fans, insufferable.  This isn't real life, learn to suspend your disbelief because a fucking baby looks a bit older or else you're doomed to just hate every piece of media you ever consume.  This is just annoying.ITT: idiots who think every aspect of a storyline told through books consisting of thousands of pages can be soundly translated into a TV showTo me, Euron being passed not only Littlefinger's teleportation device, but also a time-turner, was the most jarring element of this episode. Last season, Euron was left with most of his fleet stolen by Yara and Theon - it was written as being supposed to have been a huge blow to his strength, or at least a substantial contribution to Daenery's cause.

Now S7 rolls around, and someone's decided that Euron needs to be a dangerous man from the get go. The solution is stupendously simple: give the man a thousand ships on the instant. The audience is therefore expected to assume that the time between the Kingsmoot and the audience at King's Landing (which is equal to the time that Yara and Theon spent sailing from the Iron Islands to Volantis to Meereen, then back to Dragonstone) is a sufficient amount of time to build a *thousand ships* on an island archipelago *that has no trees* and sail them all to King's Landing.

I mean, come on.To all this: you're completely right. The episode was complete shit. > This seems over-the-top and simply put into the show to induce a dumbass 'HELL YEAH' moment for the audience.

This is the reason I stopped watching The Walking Dead, and I have long feared it happening to GOT. As you have so thoroughly outlined, it seems like with this season the time has finally come. When the dust finally settles for the last season, and everything has been said and done, a lot of viewers will finally realize you were right: D&D's version of ASOIAF sucks. Maybe both tales share a common destination but Martin's is the road less traveled. Man, I'm glad people like you aren't writing for the show. Would be boring as fuck to see every minute detail you want added. We don't need to see every little detail, I understand that people travel, but I don't want to see Jorah on a boat for 3 episodes. > Why, after baking men into pies and staging a massacre, is Arya still able to enjoy the company of these Lannister soliders in the woods like a friendly, normal girl? It totally contradicts how she is unable to empathise with people anymore, how she is damaged and broken and trusts noone. It felt like she'd totally slipped out of character, laughing and quipping like they were mates down the pub. And why are these soliders referring to the 'drinking age' in Westeros? This is ridiculous - even children drank in the middle ages! And why are they inviting a random girl who could be an enemy to come and sit with them, no questions asked? Why are they all so nice, with no variation in character at all? Why is noone mistrustful or curious about Arya? And don't get me started on Ed Sheeran. So much about this scene is poorly written.
  
I have to disagree.  
  
* As the scene starts, she is traveling alone and comes across some soldiers; Lannister soldiers, upon closer inspection.  
* We can't see the road she's on, but we have to assume that it goes straight passed them and she can't avoid being spotted, especially not at the point we come into the scene.  
* No names are exchanged. They remain strangers throughout the interaction. They simply offer a traveler some food.  
* The camera shifts around the campsite multiple times, showing the locations of the soldier's weapons, and then Arya's face. She grips her sword tightly. It's almost as if, considering her training, and what Jaqen was able to do to help her and her friends escape Harrenhall, she is weighing the odds of winning against these unarmed soldiers. No hostility arises.  
* We hear a couple of stories. One about a soldier's dad out fishing alone on a boat, and how he wishes he could be out there with his old man. One about (presumably) the captain's wife just giving birth. We are reminded by the captain that they don't get information about their families while they're out fighting wars, and uncover the viewpoint on war from this newer generation of soldiers. "Girls take care of their pop-pop's when they get old. Boys just go off to fight in someone else's war." These soldiers don't seem to enjoy war as much as Robert Baratheon, the previous generation's highest ranking soldier.  
  
> It totally contradicts how she is unable to empathise with people anymore, how she is damaged and broken and trusts noone.

Yes, it does, and in the best possible way. She comes to learn (or remember) that despite the Lannisters being one of her greatest enemies and biggest targets, these being soldiers, these *Lannister* soldiers, they're people, too, and the regret of her initial mistrust, I think, shines through in her honesty when asked why she is going to King's Landing. She has no quarrel with these soldiers, they don't like war either, and they offered her food and wine.  
    
* Remember that during her entire time with Jaqen, she never let go of her identification with Arya Stark.  
* As Walder Frey, she calls the rest of they Freys brave for slaughtering their guests after inviting them into their home.  
* The Starks follow the Old Gods, and "[various actions, such as incest, kinslaying, and slavery are considered offensive to the gods, while laws of hospitality are considered sacred.](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Old_gods)" This directly contradicts with the actions of the Lannisters, the Targaryens, and the Freys, to name a few contemporary examples.  
* During winter at Winterfell, the smallfolk are invited into the hold to "batten down the hatches" against the frost. It's hard to imagine that a person who was brought up like that, who clung to that identity throughout a training regime designed to destroy identity, could repay kindness with merciless killing.  
  
edit: changed commoners to smallfolk, added in the bit about laws of hospitality and the Old Gods.Leave it for the booksIts a TV show. There isn't unlimited time to show every ticky tack detail. It wouldn't even be interesting if they did that - pacing is still a thing (for a negative example see the past two books).People here are attacking the weakest of OP's arguments, while ignoring the fact that a lot of his main points are valid.In response to your first question, wouldn't it have been fairly easy for Cersei to explain it as an accident?

There are still caches of wildfire planted all over King's Landing from Robert's Rebellion, very sensitive explosions that would literally blow up at the drop of a hat. How hard would it be for her to say that their deaths was an accident without her involvement? Tommen's suicide makes it look like even less of some Lannister conspiracy for the throne. 

There could very well still be public unrest though, purely based on her unpopularity.Word, what happened to that religious cult that was all the rage that now has a martyr that was unjustly murdered by a licentious evil monarch- surely she didn't kill every Sparrow in King's Landing. 

The Frey murders felt like fan-service but it's relatively believable. I'm still not really sure about how this face magic works but whatever. You're right in saying I didn't really think the payoff felt as good as the Red Wedding. Killing a bunch of nameless sons is hardly recompense for Robb but they had to go so they did. I wouldn't have liked it if they showed Arya planning the whole thing for 2 episodes.

Dani really wasn't in this episode so I can't really complain. She gets one line and it's trailer-fodder but it's obvious that they didn't intend for it to get serious with her in episode 1. Most of your complaints have to do with last season so it's a little unfair to bring it up now as a fault with this new season.

Sansa v Jon is a shoehorned plot device that I think most people would rather do without. It's there just to add another layer of tension to the northern scenes. It'll only be resolved when Little Finger is dead because he's the one still floating around the castle being annoying. I **like** little finger but jeez does he get tiresome every episode.I also know what side he's on now (his own) so there's no real intrigue or enigma left.

I'm fine with Jaime as is. His primary motivation has always been his love for Cersei. She needs him now more than ever so he feels as though he needs to keep her safe. It's obvious he's conflicted with her and he's also mourning the death of his children. I don't think it would be honest to show him dumping her by the wayside and going to join Da king in da Norf.

Brienne is Sansa's guard. Although she has an interesting backstory and she was once held hostage with Jamie Lanny it doesn't make sense to try and focus on her as one of the big players. She's not and she never really was. 

Across the narrow sea was never where this story would end. Let's just be honest about that. Nobody gives a fuck about Mereen or Quaithe or wherever the fuck. It existed only to serve as a coming of age story for Dany. I would LOATHE it if we went back there just to see things going well or poorly under Daario's rule. Those cities could be burnt to a crisp for all the purpose they actually have on the story. Maybe she'll send the Dothraki, Unsullied and Mercenaries back once she's consolidated rule in Westeros. God knows they don't want to be an ocean away from home fighting for rule over a land that never belonged to them with customs that are not reconcilable with Westerosi culture. What the fuck are the Dothraki gonna do in Westeros, they're basically the Iron Born with Horses instead of boats. They'll cause nothing but trouble, alas, this is how the story goes. 




People completely accept that the book chapters don't happen chronologically, why is it so hard for people to do the same for the show? Some things that happen in episode one night happen before some scenes in episode 2. Each episode has its own narrative with scenes complimenting a certain set of themes. If they did everything chronologically it wouldn't flow correctly. For anyone who shares similar sentiments with the OP, as I do, here's something I like to read every once in a while to cope and have a good laugh: 

http://imgur.com/gallery/t8NHg


Jorah's travel to Oldtown and the aging of Gilly's child I can forgive (we cannot see everything that Jorah does when he is sent away, and an older child is an easier one to work with than one that has to be carried everywhere), but most of this I have issue with as well.

Many people here seem to miss that just because it is a show, and because it is a different medium than the books, does not mean that internal logic to the setting should be ignored in the service of time allotment.  Showing that Dany had to wipe out a castellan and his men (or them surrendering quickly in fear of the dragons) would have taken little effort to show.  If they wanted to show that Arya was now having issues with her moralities they could have had her skirting the camp, eavesdropping before getting noticed, and letting her guard down - letting what she heard prior to joining the camp speak to her learning compassion - without even watching the death of the Freys.  ITT: people don't care about quality. Just give us more Tits and DragonsYeah totally agree. Honestly the show is a live action comic book at this point which is quite sad.  Dreading the fact that it will reveal the end before the books can. D&D made bank and said, "Fuck it, lol, just write whatever."

It all started with Ramsay. I first started to notice the writing was steadily going downhill once Ramsay was introduced. 

Book Ramsay is fine, but Show Ramsay is a probably one of the cheapest villains ever written. "20 good men" lmao. Expert saboteur lmao. Expert archer lmao. Omg he's a super sick and clever psychopath (cue tumblr fans swooning and making gifs).

Essentially, how Show-Ramsay came to be what he was is that D&D took to heart the praise from vapid fans and critics alike, the praise that said GoT was brilliant because "bad guys win sometimes." All the nuance of the world of GoT discarded and reduced to "lol if bad guy kill good guy then it be smart writing 10/10." 

D&D knew that idiots, seeing Ramsay do more evil shit, would think it clever, subversive writing, simply because he kills and hurts some beloved characters. "lul if u think dis has a happy ending u havunt been paying attention!1" 







a hundred fucking percent agreed. i am sorry, because i loved this series, but right now it just feels like a well directed fan fiction.

arya is basically mystique now, and no one (faceless men, indeed) gives a shit

one of the biggest plot points of the saga's central act (revenge against freys) has been executed in two scenes

jon is alive and paid absolutely zero price. if all, he's better off, like a saiyan

jaime is a spineless doormat

cersei doesn't give a total fuck that tommen offed himself

euron wants to marry cersei LOL (alright, it's logical, but lol nevertheless)


i'm ok with sam's part. dany, for now, too. 
ultimately, it's just a big ball of hype. i for one hope they've decided to go all out and unleash some big ass ice dragons, sea monsters, lava giant bullcrap to pacific rim this shit up. so we get some nice scenes like hardhome or botb, and when the dust settles gurm can sweep in and give us his version of the story.

and oh, about that, here's even more controversy, because oh poor gurm, can't force him to write. of course we can't. but it's on him nevertheless. he's been so disorganised that he had the major plot point of his opus magnus spoiled by the tv series, and we've passed the point of no return for a while now. it's probably gonna spoil the ending (i hope not, ultimately, but it's a very hollow hope). of course, he's cool with that and it's his problem ultimately.People confuse novelty for quality all the time. This show has been on a steep downward spiral for at least three seasons. But because people want to know what/how happens next, they're forcing themselves to love it in order to justify watching more. It's like LOST all over again. Every person I know who decided to re-watch the show for fun, has been surprised by how bad they realized it was.

Nothing happens on this show anymore. We're taken from what is supposed to be key-scene to key-scene, but there is zero weight actually happening on-screen. The show basically says "this is an important scene" because of the structure of the show, where/when a scene happens. But in terms of the content of scenes, nothing happens. Characters don't say things that are relevant, and if they do, their scene partner doesn't respond in a self-consistent logic. Characters don't behave like: 1)most people, 2)even special people, 3)consistent with their previous characterization, 4)as if they actually heard the person they're in the scene with, 5)with emotional tone.

The show has writing problems on a few levels.
1. The above mentioned characterization level
2. The dialog is cringeworthy
3. The episode level:

Watch an episode of GOT, get a feeling like "boy there must be so much left of this episode (because not much has REALLY happened yet)", check the time, discover there's only 4min left in the episode. This happens, EVERY SINGLE EPISODE for the past 3-4 seasons. If you're familiar with this feeling, there's a strong chance you also felt it on shows like Better Call Saul.

Compare that with a shows like True Detective or the new Twin Peaks where you have the feeling like "man, so much has happened, how is this episode going to end in the next 5min?!", check the time, discover only 18min have gone by and you've got 40min left of show.

GOT suffers from a lack of significant moments dealt with in meaningful/believable ways (again I don't mean non-magical, just story/character consistency), and therefore a lack of density. They waste so much time with superficial elements, that there's almost no story happening, no believable character development. (I agree with OP and others, Danny scenes are the most obvious examples. Though I'm not sure it's fair to blame Clarke because we have no idea whether she's not being directed to act like a plank of wood)

These issues are why a lot of people I know (book and non-book fans) went from loving this show 3-4 seasons ago, to watching it just to see what happens, or watching it just to be a part of a cultural zeitgeist which is fun. Nothing wrong with that.I agree. The writing is just fucking atrocious. Everything in this episode was filler. It feels like the only directive the writers have is to just eat up five minutes at a time. Arya killing all the Freys is redundant and makes her crazy fucking overpowered. What could possibly stop her? 

Everything is so boring and uninspired. Like Sam finally has access to all the collected knowledge of human beings, and the big info he gets is that Dragon stone has dragon glass? What a "fuck you" to the audience that is, especially after having to endure that revolting shit-scrubbing scene. 

They don't have the books anymore and instead of that being liberating the writers just seem terrified. This is amateur shlock that is getting by purely based on the IP and the cultural momentum. This shit is utterly forgettable, I don't understand all the love that its getting. 
Some good points though sadly this is the way logistically it will have to be. It is a show after all and I guess this is the audience and the show reaping what we sowed. This was almost always inevitably going to happen and us demanding it has produced this.


I will agree with some points however, issues with plot holes that can't be fixed aside, there is no real excuse for the poor writing - specifically with Arya and Jamie who happen to be two of my favourite characters in the novels. They have been diminished in many ways. Jaimie has become gone from the most interesting and compelling story arcs in the novels (bar maybe Theon) to a boring and lacklustre side character. At this point he's become largely used as an extension of Cersei and all the interesting internal struggles and themes of redemption are totally MIA in the show. This isn't in my eye an issue with budget or lack of time (this could have easily been solved earlier without having to distill another plotline to make up for time), it's an issue with poor writing and a complete misunderstanding of his depth of character by D&D.

The same is similar with Arya. They have misunderstood some of her character. In fact you could say they have exaggerated some of her personality traits to give the fan-service to general audience who prefer REVENGE BLOOD AND GUTS RAAAAAAAAAA to nuanced internal struggles. What made Arya great in the book was her wild side and her slow decent into a bitter and vengeful mindset whilst also clearly being a child over her head and with a loving side to her. She certainly adopted a penance for violence (partially adopted from the hound) but it was never overpowering. The show however has disregarded much of this. They've turned her into a bitter blood-thirsty maniac and its gone so overboard in the show to the point where the human and almost childish mentalities of Arya which made me love her character in the early seasons and throughout all the novels has pretty much all gone. Sure they tried to reveal her human side during season 6 but at this point it doesn't really do much and five seconds later she's baking humans in to pies which is way overboard. Of course another issue I have with her character is unfixable due to it being a show as Maisie Williams is much older now and it reflects in her character whilst Arya in the books is still very much a child which vastly changes her.


But nothing we can do now. I imagine the script for the final season is largely finalised at this point. Here's hoping we get a killer final 2 seasons and that George releases TWOW and ADOS soon (heh).I agree. They drained the world so much, that all those actions can't resonate anywhere. There is so little vibrancy in the world. Most characters don't feel 3-dimensional, they all got streamlined to reach the conclusion.
I think this is very much a production issue. While I think there are some valid criticisms of the show, I think the no repercussions for cersei afer blowing up a portion of the city isn't one of them.

To start off anyone who could have punished her died in the sept. Third there probably aren't too many people who know she orchestrated it. Sure people can probably speculate she did it but they wouldnt have any proof and I doubt joe shit the flea bottom peasant is going to storm the red keep. She also has all the power in kings landing now with a lannister army somewhere near by.

And there have been repercussion, she lost her(well maybe not hers but the lannisters) most powerful ally in the tyrells, who have now teamed up dorne in joining dany.

Just be patient, there were no repercussions for the freys until the very end of last season, and the red wedding happened 3 seasons before that.

Blowing up the sept of baelor and killing the tyrells is likely to be her downfall.



Gods, I dislike this post so much. I understand where you are coming from, but remember this is a show. It doesn't work like books or can cater to every story line. They have a limited time and will show what they can. You have to fill in the blanks.Reading this makes me both happy and sad I quit after S6. I went to Wikipedia and read the Arya thing and sincerely thought for a moment it was a trolling. 

Big thanks to OP for saying most of, but not even all, the things that turned a show I loved into something I abandoned.i agree wholeheartedly with just about everything you said. s07e01 was difficult to watch it was so poorly written. i absolutely love grrm's writing because of the realism, and now that d&d have moved past his material, they are putting together the predictable crap that most television and movies are made of.

cheers, and thanks for taking the time to write your eloquent rebuke of what this great show has become.Stop watching then. Clearly your not enjoying the show. arya becoming a mass murderer is nowhere hinted in the books. she becomes ridden by vengeance but also desires more than anything to reunite with his kin. she didnt include walder frey in her list but said she would kill every frey involved in the RW so i wouldnt say its out of characterI was under the impression that the common folk don't know who blew up the sept (thinking it was an accident or something) and that Jaimie only suspects cersei did it. Maybe later it will show how people find out and then we'll see the revolt.[removed]Gotta agree with op, the last 2 seasons have been crap ever since they lost the source book material ...but that's what happens with TV shows. God, reading this makes me so glad I gave up seasons ago. These are exactly the sort of things that would piss me off and have been a hallmark of the show for years. Thank you. I understand why a high-fantasy blockbuster show like this might not want to be as complex as possible, and allow for a few plot holes for cool things to happen. The stupid thing is that this is happening after about 3-4 seasons where it actually did make sense, and though we didn't see everything under the surface, it felt like a functional complicated world. It's such a big jumpThis post made me cry.Anytime I think of dorne, euron, house tyrell, and dany I cringe. Thus show has went down in quality every single season and granted its still one of the best shows but look what else there is. Every season it gets more popular and every year it goes more mainstream . It was an amazing piece of art season 1. Now its just the next Beyonce song on the radio. Come on ed sheeran, really!!!!!???I have such a love/hate relationship to this show. I absolutely loved everything inside season 1-4. Then a lot of things felt cheap and unnecessary, if not dumb. It's like I love the show as a whole, but many characters and scenes just feel so linear and contradicting now.HBO writing vs GRRM is akin to Bethesda vs Obsidian.  Utterly rubbishI just want to say thank you. S7E1 was the worst episode of the series, and by the looks of this sub, I thought I was just going crazy, because the reactions were so positive.

I'm happy you took the time to go into detail on why the episode was so bad. I thought I was watching a new fast and furious movie or something...

God the writing was terrible. The dialogue was so bad. And the world felt so tiny, because they fucking killed everyone off. Not to mention the scenes themselves all felt so small. It didn't feel like the characters where in a world, it felt like they were on sets. No life to be seen. Just the main actors on screen. It hardly even felt like an episode of GoTs.

I know you're pessimistic about the books ever finishing right now. But man, that's all the hope I have left, because I can tell how dumbed down the ending of the show is gonna be, and it's gonna suck.>Where is the fallout of what happened to King's Landing last season? Are we supposed to buy the idea that there was no uprising or revolt after Cersei blew up the sept, the faith, and the Queen? It's utterly ridiculous.

Is there all that much indicating there isn't widespread discontent? There isn't an uprising or rebellion, correct, but there also wouldn't be knowledge that Cersei was behind it. There was a large explosion killing a lot of people, and then the king killed himself. I'll agree if its never addressed, but I wouldn't attack the show for failing to do so in episode 1. 

>When did Arya learn to change faces to this extent? And how did she manage to rule the Twins for two weeks as fake Walder Frey, with no-one noticing that Black Walder/Lothar are missing? More to the point - how the hell did she organise the ENTIRE family getting into one room - we're meant to believe that this is the entire extent of the notoriously massive Frey clan? Where are all the younger sons, the women and children? How did everyone make it there at short notice and surely some members are missing? How did she dispose of Walder Frey's body on her own? How did she carve up two men into a pie without being noticed? Why is she doing this mass-murder in the first place when her method of revenge up until this point has solely revolved around INDIVIDUALS who have perpetrated great crimes and her very specific kill-list? This seems over-the-top and simply put into the show to induce a dumbass 'HELL YEAH' moment for the audience. The Red Wedding is the most significant moment in perhaps the entire show and THIS is the payoff we've been waiting for? I felt nothing during this scene.

At this point we are supposed to accept she is essentially a fully capable faceless man. Believable? Not really, but I think that's also going to be the case in the books where the lack of a 5 year gap is going to strain the credibility on a lot of things. Further I find your attack on both this not being her strategy and the lack of younger sons to be contradictory. These, as she notes, are the Frey's that had a role in the Red Wedding. Younger son being fostered in KL who did nothing with the RW, isn't there. This both decreases the number of bodies in the room, anyone not relevant isn't there, and serves to also provide a plausible reason for how they gathered quickly enough, they were already nearby. 

We know his family is all vying to try and become his heir apparent, why wouldn't they be near the Twins? 

> Why has Sam's baby suddenly turned into a toddler in what seems to be the timespan of about ten minutes since the last episode of Season 6? Why has Sam only now remembered that tons of obsidian is under Dragonstone when he was told this in Season 5? Why is this forbidden information in the library when it seems to be relatively common knowledge?

This is incredibly common in television. I really can't view it as a plot or writing issue when pretty much every show doesn't want to film with an infant constantly...

>People have mentioned this elsewhere, but seriously why the hell is noone at Dragonstone? Stannis would have left someone there, or one of the neighbouring families would have claimed it, or the Lannisters would have stationed a garrison there seeing as it is one of the KEY defensive strongholds in Westeros. It is simply incomprehensible to me that the Lannisters have not done anything to reclaim Dragonstone after the battle of Blackwater. And even if we do go along with the idea that it is utterly abandoned, then why is the entire building in brilliant condition, clean to the extent that it looks freshly swept and prepared for Dany's arrival? This entire scene is a contradiction.

Maybe I'm going off on my own fanon here, but Stannis held the castle until at least his death right? His banner was still there. The Lannister's have no real need to take it back. Once Stannis goes North it doesn't present a threat to them, there aren't enough troops to attack KL. It is a very defensible fortress, and maybe even Stannis' soldiers are willing to defend it against the Lannisters. However when the Dragons show up who in their right mind is going to be fighting for a dead king against Dragons? 

>Why, after baking men into pies and staging a massacre, is Arya still able to enjoy the company of these Lannister soliders in the woods like a friendly, normal girl? It totally contradicts how she is unable to empathise with people anymore, how she is damaged and broken and trusts noone. It felt like she'd totally slipped out of character, laughing and quipping like they were mates down the pub. And why are these soliders referring to the 'drinking age' in Westeros? This is ridiculous - even children drank in the middle ages! And why are they inviting a random girl who could be an enemy to come and sit with them, no questions asked? Why are they all so nice, with no variation in character at all? Why is noone mistrustful or curious about Arya? And don't get me started on Ed Sheeran. So much about this scene is poorly written.

Casting isn't writing, nor do I see what the problem with his casting was. I didn't know what he looked like and didn't notice it at all (although my gf made a comment asking if it was him she didn't seem bothered by it). Also I suppose I just translated the 'drinking age' to mean 'are you old enough to drink?' Which is not necessarily a question of legality, you are right there isn't, but one of custom. Ned prevented, and limited his children's drinking depending on their age, it may be this is common (and I'd expect it to be in fact). 


>Why is Dany walking ahead of everyone else with all the most important people in her cohort when they haven't even scouted ahead to check Dragonstone is safe? And why is Dany and her entire cohort completely silent walking that endlessly long walk over the beach and up through Dragonstone? They have quite a bit to take in and talk about, surely? Oh wait, here we go, it's so that she can end the episode on one of her banging melodramatic one-liners. Goodbye realism, hello popcorn television.

Are we sure they didn't? The scene doesn't have her passing by her troops, but is there any indication they hadn't scouted ahead and had checked that it was safe before she landed? The entire scene to me looked very carefully done for Dany. This isn't an invasion, this is a homecoming. Its PR, its meant to please and be joyous for Dany. She doesn't talk, because this is emotional for her and everyone else respects that. Have you never had an emotional moment or visited an emotional place where people were silent? 

> Why isn't anyone noting that the Dreadfort is now a free castle that can be given to the Northern Lords? Or have the Boltons now been written out of the show entirely, along with numerous other characters and families?

How are the Bolton's relevant to the discussion over how to deal with the Karstarks and Umbers? The Bolton family line is dead. The Dreadfort can, and perhaps has already, been given away to someone loyal. Neither Jon nor Sansa is going to have a major objection about that since that family is dead and buried. Could it have been mentioned? Yes. Is it relevant to the discussion at hand? No. 

The Jon-Sansa fight is over more than just the specifics of who lives where. Its about how to rule, whether to try and cultivate love, or inspire fear. I strongly disagree that it was bad writing because the Bolton's aren't mentioned, because the Bolton's, and the castle issue, is tangential compared to the real issue of what makes a good king? Someone who is generous to their enemies in defeat, or generous to their friends who made their victory possible? Obviously the ideal is both, but when that is not possible how do you do it? Part 2 of https://np.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nxkz5/spoilers_main_examining_the_quality_of_writing_on/dkdrjsj/

> or one of the neighbouring families would have claimed it, or the Lannisters would have stationed a garrison there seeing as it is one of the KEY defensive strongholds in Westeros.

This is a little risky. Resources are spread thin and winter is coming. The Kingdoms have gone through a long war, that isn't really even over. Plus, anybody coming back would have no rightful claim to the fortress and would have to contend with Stannis, who does, when he comes back (they don't know that he isn't).

> And even if we do go along with the idea that it is utterly abandoned, then why is the entire building in brilliant condition, clean to the extent that it looks freshly swept and prepared for Dany's arrival? This entire scene is a contradiction. 

It is stone... So it is durable. It also isn't in brilliant condition. We saw parts overgrown with vegetation where nature had started to take over a little bit. But mostly it was just cleaned out. Everybody left and took everything with them.

> Why, after baking men into pies and staging a massacre, is Arya still able to enjoy the company of these Lannister soliders in the woods like a friendly, normal girl?

Because they humanized themselves to her. They were nice to her, gave her food and drink and told them about themselves. We see her checking out their weapons and she clearly is either considering killing them for being Lannisters or that they may try something on her.

>  It totally contradicts how she is unable to empathise with people anymore, how she is damaged and broken and trusts noone.

What? Now you are just making stuff up. She wants revenge and her revenge is rather ambitious, but there is nothing to indicate that she can't empathise with people anymore or that she is too damaged or broken to sit by a fire with some people and not slaughter them. The scene gave obvious clues that there was more going on in her head than the men suspected, but the idea that she's going to just go into a blind homicidal rage and slaughter them or something is reaching.

> It felt like she'd totally slipped out of character, laughing and quipping like they were mates down the pub.

Because she operates by disguising, disarming and making people let their guard down... These are also probably the first people that she's given a chance to be this nice to her in a while and she thought since they were Lannisters they probably wouldn't be and she was wrong (so far).

> And why are these soliders referring to the 'drinking age' in Westeros? This is ridiculous - even children drank in the middle ages!

This isn't the middle ages. It's so funny when people say that. "Back then, they didn't have a drinking age! But they did have dragons and fire wielding priests and that kind of stuff!" That guy obviously had some moral principles about feeding a kid alcohol, and he seemed a little naive/sheltered, and so he was just confirming that offering her alcoholic drink wouldn't be "bad".

> And why are they inviting a random girl who could be an enemy to come and sit with them, no questions asked?

Because they were, like, 7 armored and armed men and 1 girl. At first it seems they might be preying on her (and that still could be the case) but then it looks like they were just being nice and wanted company and probably figured she would be safer with them.

> Why are they all so nice, with no variation in character at all?

They are a group of soldiers who work together. Chances are if one of them is going to just generally be a dick, the others wouldn't want to work with him. Or, they do have malicious intent and are just acting that way to put her at ease. We don't know yet...

> Why is noone mistrustful or curious about Arya? 

Because she's just a girl and they don't know what we as viewers know...

> And don't get me started on Ed Sheeran. So much about this scene is poorly written. 

That was just a cameo. Acting like it was bad in some way, other than being a little distracting, is ridiculous. Also, it made sense with the singing, which was nice, considering how much of a role music has played in the story, especially in the books.

> How did Jorah get to Oldtown?

Again, time has passed. And we don't know. Probably a boat and it probably involved some horses. Why do you think they need to show us absolutely everything?

> Why isn't Sam asking any questions? 

He is... that's kind of his thing. Or, you mean, questions of Jorah? He doesn't know it is Jorah. He just thinks it is a crazed man suffering from greyscale. Do you think he talks to all of them to get their life stories?

> Why is Dany walking ahead of everyone else with all the most important people in her cohort when they haven't even scouted ahead to check Dragonstone is safe?

Because that's just her character and she is coming to her place of birth.

> And why is Dany and her entire cohort completely silent walking that endlessly long walk over the beach and up through Dragonstone? They have quite a bit to take in and talk about, surely?

It's hard to take something in when you are talking... It's just an emotional moment. They are also probably being quite so they can stay alert, since, like you said, they didn't scout ahead. The idea that they would be boisterous and throw a parade through the streets is rather absurd.

> Why isn't anyone noting that the Dreadfort is now a free castle that can be given to the Northern Lords? Or have the Boltons now been written out of the show entirely, along with numerous other characters and families?

I'm not sure, but I guess we just haven't seen them talk about it. The show is focusing on its story arcs, not the minutia of managing the North. We saw two houses "brought back in" because they had heirs. The Boltons had none. I wouldn't be surprised of Davos gets the Dreadfort, but either way that just hasn't been important yet in terms of the conflict between humans and the White Walkers.

> I could go into so much more detail on this episode alone but I want to move on to what is actually the main problem here:

I think you are too critical. Most fiction lacks the kind of details and filler information you are expecting.First, I'll say that the writing has certainly gone downhill some since the first season. That's understandable to some degree and it's also still one of the best shows on television (I think in more than just my opinion). But make no mistake, I do think the writing is not as good as the first season and various parts of the other early seasons. 

This isn't really to disagree with you, it is more to point some things out that might help you and other people. Like most of the time "plot holes" are invoked, most of these are not plot holes. We just don't have all the information, which is this story's modus operandi, at least in the books. The books "operate" on "plot holes" created by unreliable POV characters, and well, just generally unreliable non-POV characters everywhere as well.

This got so big it had to be two parts. This is part 1.

> Where is the fallout of what happened to King's Landing last season? Are we supposed to buy the idea that there was no uprising or revolt after Cersei blew up the sept, the faith, and the Queen? It's utterly ridiculous.

I suspect this is the answer to most of these, but *time has passed*, like, probably months. Even so, the people of King's Landing would have no idea that Cersei blew of the sept and it is incredibly easy to portray it as an accident.

> When did Arya learn to change faces to this extent?

When she was training with the Faceless Men... there was quite a bit of last season dedicated to that. Also, again, *time has passed*. She learned how to do the magic that allowed this to happen and we didn't see every time she practiced it...

> And how did she manage to rule the Twins for two weeks as fake Walder Frey, with no-one noticing that Black Walder/Lothar are missing? 

He is an ornery, at best, cruel at worst, lord. He can do what he wants. She could ask, as him, to be left alone for two weeks and people would do that or fear being punished or killed. As for Black Walder and Lothar being gone, he could say he sent them off on some trip or mission or whatever. He can tell people anything. Acting like a servant girl is going to be like "M'lord, I haven't seen your sons in a while. You must be Arya disguised as Walder Frey..." seems like it is reaching.

>  More to the point - how the hell did she organise the ENTIRE family getting into one room

"You there, servant, tell the Maester to send a raven to all my male relatives and invite them to a feast so that I can discuss the future of our house with them."

>  Where are all the younger sons, the women and children?

Arya, like Jon, might have opted to spare the younger sons. The women and children had a good reason not to be at the feast as it was framed as being an important meeting where the family was going to discuss its future and women and children wouldn't have a say.

> How did everyone make it there at short notice and surely some members are missing?

Maybe, she took what she could get. As for how they got there, they had a "fortnight" to come and most of them are going to be living in the area.

> How did she dispose of Walder Frey's body on her own?

Who knows? Why does it matter? She could have just dumped him into the river.

>  How did she carve up two men into a pie without being noticed?

She was stealthy? I mean, this is hardly implausible.

> Why is she doing this mass-murder in the first place when her method of revenge up until this point has solely revolved around INDIVIDUALS who have perpetrated great crimes and her very specific kill-list?

Because basically the entire House Frey (or at least the leaders of the House) were all involved. And this isn't true, she has always shown contempt for groups of people, like Lannister soldiers. That was part of the point of the later scene with the soldiers. She was considering killing them and then they turned out to be, apparently, okay guys for the most part. They at least humanized themselves to her, most likely unintentionally.

>  This seems over-the-top and simply put into the show to induce a dumbass 'HELL YEAH' moment for the audience. The Red Wedding is the most significant moment in perhaps the entire show and THIS is the payoff we've been waiting for? I felt nothing during this scene. 

That sounds more like a personal problem... What did you think you were supposed to feel? I didn't yell "HELL YEAH" or anything, but I had to process the implications of what she just did.

> Why has Sam's baby suddenly turned into a toddler in what seems to be the timespan of about ten minutes since the last episode of Season 6?

Well, again, *time has passed*. Plus, he was about there in the last season, we just didn't really see him standing or see him much when he wasn't covered in a blanket or swaddled or whatever.

> Why has Sam only now remembered that tons of obsidian is under Dragonstone when he was told this in Season 5?

Well, the book reminded him and when he was told earlier, he was quite far from Dragonstone. Also, I think the book made it clear that there is, like, literally, a mountain of it under Dragonstone, and Stannis just acted like he knew of it but could be exaggerating its abundance.

But it's main purpose was probably to tie this into Daenerys' arrival and Dragonstone and her taking the throne. That throne is the image we see in the book, and it appears to be a dragon glass throne formed from the tip of a mountain of dragon glass...

So the scene with Sam was made to set up the fact that the throne she just took is the thing that the rest of the Kingdom needs to fight the Others/White Walkers.

> Why is this forbidden information in the library when it seems to be relatively common knowledge?

The "forbidden" part, which is really just restricted, is the magical aspect of dragon glass. The Maesters have a strange relationship with magic, and so it is likely that pretty much anything magical/arcane is in that restricted section.

> Stannis would have left someone there

First, I will say that I thought this was a little jarring, too. But, no, Stannis abandoned it. He was convinced (correctly, as far as we can tell) the fight was in the North and abandoned it and brought everything up. Any non military people would probably leave since they wouldn't be equipped to defend the fortress and could make themselves targets by staying.
While I agree that the writing went downhill the last two seasons, a lot of things you point can be easily answered by the viewer without explanation.

* Kings Landing after the blow out: Simply because we don't see how the common people react doesn't mean they haven't / won't but apart from that now that Cercei is the only player left, she can manipulate how the news are spread. The remaining lords who were faithful to the idea of the crown, have no rightful air to support right now , that might change soon.

* Arya: You say on your own, well magic because it's exactly that in the show. Is it mentioned even once, that the training Arya did was for her to learn how to use those masks? 

I also don't like her arc anymore and I agree he has turned into an ex machina for the show, but as far as the faces are concerned we don't get any explanation apart from, it's magic so I don't think it's bad writing , it's simply TV writing.

The establish from the get go that the faceless men operate as a cult and her whole training was for her to be no one. The masks work the same way, Thoros wakes up Beric for example. It's magic, not training.

Her butchering the Frey's is fan service , nobody can deny that, but saying how can nobody understand she is imitating Walder, two counter points to that. 
a) She could have just stayed shut into his room to plot because he is the fucking lord of the castle , he can do whatever the fuck he wants.

b) Again the masks are simply magic for the show, it could work like Obfuscate (hey yo Vtm shout out) for others.

* Teleporting , baby getting older: Are we really going to blame a tv show that has a strict deadline, actors, crews that time jumps to get shit moving? By the way I think they give subtle hints of how time works in this show. Like clothing, weather changes etc.

* Dragonstone: Jaime says before we see Danny land that she would head there probably. Subtle hint that others think so, meaning nobody gives a rats ass to man up a castle that would be completely cut out from any backup if such an overwhelming force sieges it. Waste of resources, also if there were any inhabitants there, as soon as they would witness the fleet they would cut bait pretty fast. It would be a waste of time of the show imo.

Anyway I disagree with more but ultimately it's a tv show, it most certainly has a huge amount of deus ex machina, scenes for shock value alone, fan service but it's how these things work in tv like 90% of the time.





I believe Mr. Martin will address all of your concerns once he gets around to novelize this part of the show. I'm on board with this post almost 100%. And ironic that comments are calling you nitpicky and then nitpicking "jorah just took a boat duh".You make many good points in your section 2 about bad character development and in section 3 about good storylines that were abandoned or excluded and bas storylines that were included. Why did you have to start the post with that overly nit-picky section 1 about plot holes?Everyone in this sub has already been shitting all over the episode. I don't know where you've been. Plain and simple, there's not enough time to show every moment of everything. I can't get over Eurons awful costume no eye patch idk wtf they're doing.Grrm's approach to the series is better for world building than it is for reaching the endgame.

This is why, 16 years and three volumes after the publication of asos, and he still hasn't covered what he intended for the fourth book.

What he has in mind for the ending, which is what he told d&d, just doesn't justify all the magnificent world building and plotlines he put in place.

I think he knows that, and this causes both his procrastination and his tendency to fall back on expanding his canvas instead of zeroing in on the ending.

The producers don't have that luxury. They can't drag us along for another 30 years, like he does. So they just work with the ending they got from grrm, and that means ditching all that was built beforehand.

All in all, the basic plot is a shaggydog story - lots of people fighting over a land that the white walkers will destroy. As the show gets closer to the ending, it's starting to look like a shaggydog tale itself.Just needed to log in to say I completely agree with every sentiment expressed here. It's frankly amazing to me that a show that was so well done for three years could become so awfully written and conceived for the three subsequent years. Clearly Dan and Dave are way, way over their heads as fantasy writers absent GRRM's source material and have fallen back on gimmicky, formulaic TV writing that will please most teenage fans. 

As the OP says, I continue to watch because I'm invested at this point and do hold out hope for a return to form in terms of writing quality. In my heart I know that's not going to happen (and so much damage has been done to the story at this point that it probably wouldn't matter). But there were little flickers in S7E1, notably Sandor's scenes. I think a lot of fans are experiencing the deep cognitive dissonance of pouring their time into this story while knowing that it has gone to shit. I believe it is yes. Even if it isn't that leaves the question of how all the 'important' freys managed to be close to a raven/ receive a messenger within the now even shorter period of time. This is a show with the technology of the Middle Ages and I really doubt that they could return home and then back to the twins in the now even shorter period of time you describe.It's rushed essentially because the producers and actors are bored and want to move on. Sucks that it has to end this wayNext time you want to post something like this please use numbers for your lists, I wanted to answer your post with something that might encourage discussion, but I got cancer just from the idea of having to quote this wall of text point by point. 

And yeah chill the fuck out, you got way to worked up from how you put it down, have a joint or something man.Finally, this whole subreddit is a circlejerk about how the show is 'amazing' but it really isn't. Since season 4 the writing went to shit, and now they have completely abandoned the books, which is sad.Because only one of the things you listed is a plot hole (and you somehow left out Sam's dragon glass moment), and you seem to drastically misunderstand many of the characters. 

The writing has decreased in quality over the years, but this past episode was written much better than the majority of season 5 and season 6. One episode does not make a trend, but this suggests the show may be moving in the right direction.

Your last point isn't even about this episode. My impression is that you went into this episode expecting to hate it and ended up creating ways to justify that pre-conceived notion.Things that happen off-screen aren't plot holes. Maybe Arya didn't kill all the Frey's in that one scene, and she had to kill the others in separate, less dramatic ways. Maybe Dany sent ahead scouts to Dragonstone to make sure it was safe, clear out any squatters etc. before she arrived. It would make sense right? Maybe there was fallout from the destruction of the Sept, but it's not integral to the plot so they didn't bother showing it. 

As for the abandoned characters (Old Nan? Really?) and teleporting characters, these aren't new elements of the show. Quaithe hasn't appeared since season 2, and characters have been teleporting back and forth across Westeros from the beginning. A lot of your criticisms are quite nitpicky and hyperbolic. Yes the show isn't without it's problems (the Ed Sheeran cameo was ridiculous), but it feels like you're looking for things to complain about with this post.I agree; I thought it was poor, though not much worse than the average of the last two seasons. I don't think you were nitpicky necessarily, merely making the point that there were so many things wrong, big and small with most scenes that they added up to something that was only minimally entertaining. It felt nine parts surface and superficiality to one part character meat and plot vegetables, when I would say season one was more like one part garnish to one part dinner. If that makes sense.I agree with everything you've said, and the most frustrating part to me is that it does feel rushed while, at the same time, it feels like it's wasting lots of time. There are 12 episodes left now, and we spent what felt like 10 minutes on a somewhat pointless Ed Sheeran scene and a literal montage of Sam scrubbing shit. I feel like things need to start happening sooner rather than later.I think the OP has given a lot of people reasons to discredit his valid criticisms by reviewing every details of the premiere episode. I don't think we should really nit pick into each & every scene but I strongly agree with the OP's character criticism. The characters have all become boring with flat story arc. Specially Dany & Arya's plot have been bland and one directional.If you don't like it, then stop watching it.

The show:

1) Doesn't have time to explain all the stupid details that no one wants to hear about OR has anything to do with the main story line.

2) Things have to be simplified for the sake of the story. The Frey's are ALL gone, but losing the  top 20 people in the house will probably leave just a few minor people in charge of it, rendering the house largely irrelevant now. 

I agree with you.  I've just come to terms that they are 2 different beasts.  The books will always be better, just how it is, so many things can be portrayed via that medium, and not to mention George is the original source.  Just gotta take the show with a grain of salt and try to not compare.I agree with a a lot of these points, one thing that I think has happened is that with the books D&D had the need to include a certain amount of scenes and so on from the book, being an adaptation. So it kind of kept them in check, a little, and made the show more layered and complex

 Now that they are just working from a loose outline of what would happen in the books:  we can't even conceive the amount of sheer material , context, and information that will be missing from the story proper... It's like an abridged version of an abridged version, just  the bare basics of what happens across two or three large books in simpler broader strokes  and it really shows in the dialog, the pacing, characters acting out of character and so on > Her lines are all 'badass' quotes that seem to have been written purely as trailer-fodder


***SHALL WE BEGIN?!?***Seven Hells, I agree on most general points, some minor details I may disagree, but in general I find you spot on. At some point the show became condescending and has not stopped, it has forced me to do the same, I watch it yes, but I know I'll have to look away from some stuff in various degrees, and accept what is being presented.

Check out Preston Jacobs reviews, if you have not. And the other Preston stuff, which is awesome.Since it appears a couple of times: "noone" is not a word> Why has Sam's baby suddenly turned into a toddler in what seems to be the timespan of about ten minutes since the last episode of Season 6? Why has Sam only now remembered that tons of obsidian is under Dragonstone when he was told this in Season 5? 

I'm sure that somebody else has already covered it, but this isn't a valid complaint. There's literally a passage-of-time montage.

As well as that, the baby [isn't *that* much bigger than in S6E10](http://media.mcm.fr/article-3264149-head-f167974796/game-of-thrones-saison-7-season-7-photos.jpg).Honestly OP I think you have difficulties grasping passage of time and how its shown in this show. A lot of your qualms are simply not realizing more/less time has passed than you think.

1) Arya was not there for 2 weeks, what gave you that idea? She literally says as Walder Frey "I know we JUST had a feast but heres another one..."

2) The quick-cut montage of Sam clearly shows a significant amount of time has passed at the citadel, im guessing at least weeks possibly months. Im guessing youre not very familiar with how fast infants/children grow either.

3) Kings landing: again, the sept wasnt blown up the day before, the giant mural of westeros clearly would have taken weeks and was supposed to indicate a significant amount of time has passed.

4) how did jorah get to oldtown? A boat? Last we saw him he literally said he ws going to find a cure, and what better place than the university/med school of westeros? Im not sure whats so hard to believe about this.Honestly at this point in the show , characters like brienne will suffer from just being there because they're not sure what to do with her , other characters like Arya will probably become more a plot device than a character. 

Sansa speaking publicly against Jon about his decision,  I have agree with because that showed jon's mistake rather than Sansa's . He clearly didn't consult his advisors and if he did he's making the exact same mistakes that got him stabbed , not listening to his advisors and convincing them to trust his decision .

Daenerys and jon's arc haven't been good , daenerys arc was good until s6 ep1 after that she's bland and while people are quick to call her a Mary Sue, Jon is just as bad .

Jon's arc became fairly bland at about s6 ep4 , he hasn't changed since his resurrection , he's making the same mistakes that got him stabbed and if he doesn't at least listen to Sansa he'll put himself in danger again. His character IMO has been reduced to him saying the white walkers are coming and everyone suddenly believing him when no one has for the past six seasonsI've been kind of blown away by how overwhelmingly positive all the reviews of episode 1 have been.  I thought overall it was an incredibly weak episode that lacked cohesion, just sort of ill-fitting pieces thrown together.  People are saying how well it sets up the season but they already delayed and shortened the season, something more substantial needed to happen.

I think show Euron is also a shadow of book Euron, they've really messed up his character so far.Totally agree with your post.  If only Martin didn't get blocked, you know we'd be having a different narrative experience now.  Still far above s6. I do agree with you about Arya. She sticks out now like something from a fanfic.    Much of that is down to how unconvincing her "arc" was last season.
Agreed, but sadly this sub is overrun by show defenders now (as usual during this time of the year) so I doubt you will get a lot of upvotes :/The show nose dived in quality at the same time as the books. Has it gotten worse since it passed them? A little yeah, but AFFC and ADWD are *significantly* weaker than the first 3 books. If George ever finishes the last 2, I expect them to be similar quality to 4 and 5. I know it may sound bitter to say I was waiting for a post like this but I hated how we weren't talking about how shit that episode was. I know this has become the standard from the show, but we still should critisize it. Moments so impactful like Dany reaching westeros or someone finally getting revenge on the Frey's should be so much impactful. Where are Dany and Arya's emotions? Arya is my favourite character and much of it is because, to me, she is the best person in the books, or at least the one with more empathy, but she is also full of hate. In the show she just feels like a killing machine. I know they tried to humanize her a little with the Lannister scene, but that scene is just ridiculous. It's too obvious and it doesn't make sense. It requieres a trust she should not have on Lannister soldiers. It was reading so part of the books last night and it makes me so sad this is the resolution I am getting of a story I loved so much. Listen guy I read to like 9 bullet points down and almost all of your complaints are pretty much bullshitFor one, you have to learn to accept that the show and books are completely different in terms of characterisation. If you do not learn to accept that, you will not enjoy the show at all, judge it on its own merits and do not compare them. 

For example, most people forget that Book Littlefinger and Show Littlefinger are two completely different characters. In the show, he is seen as a creepy schemer that no one trusts or likes but in the books, Littlefinger is actually seen as someone everyone likes and calls a friend. Same goes for Book and show Tyrion. Show Tyrion is a decent human being with flaws but overall is pretty clean-cut. Book Tyrion is grey, far more complex and often does morally questionable things. Same goes for all the other characters you mentioned. These are issues that have existed since the beginning and are not new.

Although Jaime might seem to have arguably gone backwards, I understand the point of the show runners of keeping him around. 
Due to the structure of a television show, it is difficult to show a character's internal conflict to the audience in this case being Cersei's. Besides, there is literally no character left in King's Landing for Cersei to interact with. 
This is the same issue that we see with Arya. Because she's isolated, its difficult to show her inner conflict and loss of identity the books show so well. 

I also agree with the fact that they kept Lady Stoneheart dead. It would not only diminish the effect of the red wedding but would lead to a situation that every time a character died, the audience would just question why the Lord of Light couldn't just bring that person back. 

With regards to Ser Barrisan's death. Why would Dany take Tyrion Lannister as an adviser when Ser Barristan is trusted and available? Although I disagree with this to an extent. 

But overall, as a book reader and show-watcher. I still think the premiere was good. On its own merits. This all probably strays into pedantry, but screw it, if there's a time and place for pedantry it's probably a thread like this:

I would add a domain to your criticism, although maybe it comes under character - dialogue. I appreciate that there a lot of moments in GoT when characters are discussing things in public where expression needs to be kept formal, so dialogue is stilted but for obvious reasons and in a realistic way.

The way that characters speak in private, though, or casual settings, should be different. Cersei and Jaime on their own in the map room should have been less expository and more rhythmic and conversational. A random nitpick that came up for me was when the BwB find the farm and Beric says 'no smoke *coming* from the chimney'. If you had hundred people try to make that point in regular speech, 90 of them would say *'no smoke from the chimney'* and drop the word *coming* because verbs are assumed from context in normal conversation. It's a tiny little point, but at this stage an episode of GoT is every bit as highly produced as a feature film and there should be an editor who pays attention to stilted dialogue and makes sure the characters speak like human beings.

Probably crazy nitpicky, but it felt sloppy to me.Well you know what happened?
The show surpassed the books...Excellent post, me and my brother were talking about the episode earlier and had many of the same issues you've brought up - the overarching one being the constant 'hell yeah!' scenes.




Man, the biggest fiasco about Sansa marrying Ramsay was that it didn't bear any consequences, or took any given advantages and made the most of it. If they absolutely had to have him rape Sansa, they should at least have gotten her pregnant. That scene was only made for the sake of shock value, but so much could've been done with it. Or, instead of getting her pregnant, they should've revolved the entire episode around the wedding, and followed the book chapter in this regard, with all the intrigue and the rivalry between families going on still. And it should've ended with Theon taking Sansa and escaping.

Btw, I've said this before, and I'll say it again. Remember Ros the whore back in season 3? They should never have killed her off. Instead, they should've given her Jeyne Poole's role. She's a redhead and a Northerner, and could've been an ideal whore from Baelish establishment to replace Sansa (instead of Arya, like in the books), and it would've added a lot more depth to Theon's arc, as he they seemed to have stood pretty close back in season 1. Him helping her escape would've been marvelous.But what about D&D's two minute of just shit inside of 60 minutes of pure shit. It's shitception... Inshition... Also scooby do masks are great. MISSION IMPOSSIBLE showed that futuristic masks are all you need to impersonate someone. 

The one thing they did do well...ish was show that their are good normal people who are fighting on both sides of the wars, and that they suffer from these problems between uncaring nobles. Some things I agree. Some I don't. Some don't make sense. 

You complain about the one-dimensional characterisation of Arya 

>Arya seems to have become nothing but a kick-ass deus-ex-machina device for the writers to send around on murder sprees that have long ceased to contain any substance or impact.

Then you complain that she isn't that one-dimensional character. 

>Why, after baking men into pies and staging a massacre, is Arya still able to enjoy the company of these Lannister soliders in the woods like a friendly, normal girl? > Why, after baking men into pies and staging a massacre, is Arya still able to enjoy the company of these Lannister soliders in the woods like a friendly, normal girl? It totally contradicts how she is unable to empathise with people anymore, how she is damaged and broken and trusts noone. It felt like she'd totally slipped out of character, laughing and quipping like they were mates down the pub.

>Arya seems to have become nothing but a kick-ass deus-ex-machina device for the writers to send around on murder sprees that have long ceased to contain any substance or impact. All the internal conflict within her that used to be present has been reduced down to a single-minded killing machine story that is as predictable as it is lazy. One of my favourite characters has become superficial and melodramatic, and it's deeply sad to see so much wasted potential.

You are contradicting yourself here completely. You criticize that Arya has become an emotionless killing machine, but when they try to humanize her and make her see that even her enemies have good people among them, you say that she shouldn't be able to enjoy normal human interactions anymore? This is literally the inner conflict that she has. 

The scene in the woods was extremely important for her, and for us the viewers too - it showed that the ones that really suffer because of the decisions of the ones ''playing the Game of Thrones'' are not necessarily bad people, they just don't know anything beyond their given tasks. And now Arya has seen that and it could spark another change in her path as a character. 

It was wonderfully done and the way you contradict yourself with these awful arguments shows that you're really just looking for reasons to complain here. You can't complain about something, see it get fixed and then complain even more.You're over reacting a bit i think OP. But you do make a point that is grounded in reality.

But i mean, we have to realise it is a TV show, the biggest in the world. It HAS to go forward at breakneck speed. 

I particularly agree about the Jaime and Dorne arc's. Terrible writing. But it is definitely not as bad as you are making out.I agree with you almost completely.

Let us not forget that in season 6 the writers felt the need to put in a joke to remind the audience that Theon didn't have a cock in every scene he was inI was thoroughly disapointed with this episode as wellI totally agree. You basically listed all my criticisms of this episode point for point. The empty Dragonstone (he didn't even leave the cleaning staff?), Arya as a mood-swinging super powered assassin who never makes mistakes anymore (how did she even *learn* the names of all the Freys who were at the Red Wedding? Were the musicians there too? What about all the Frey men who ambushed the Starks in their tents outside?), the writers just killing off entire plotlines with single scenes so they can get to the end, all of it. And they seem to have decided to confirm every damn fan theory under the sun. The Hound is alive and joins up with the Brotherhood, Jon is a Targaryen and a Stark, Cold Hands is Benjen. I really hope some of these elements are subverted in the books, it feels cheap and fan service-y.

The show has been terrible for the past several seasons and it's only getting worse. I only watch anymore because it's very good for TV fantasy, but it's gone from being all I could have wished for in a live action adaptation of the books to a depressing parody of itself. All the attention to detail and world building and character development is coming to a stupid dragons versus zombies CG battle.Most of these complaints are actually nitpicks. There's plenty of real-life (not show related) answers to your questions.

There isn't time to go over every little damn fucking thing. If anything, the writing improved over Season 5 and 6 so far. While it's not at the level of seasons 1 - 4, the longer scenes allowed for better dialogue between characters which seasons 5 and 6 lacked immensely.Not gonna lie, it's posts like this why "book readers" have such a bad reputation. If you really don't like a single thing about the show you shouldn't watch it, why force yourself to watch something you obviously hate and just have so much negativity in your mind because of it?Anyone else notice that every point raised here was brought up in Preston Jacobs videos prior to this post being made?Just on the topic of Arya's apparent mental health; she's spent a considerable amount of time training to be an assassin with the Faceless Men. At least a part of this this training would include "not looking like you've just murdered a bunch of people," unless they don't care about their expensive assassins getting away with their contracts. Great post. I don't understand how people can still get so invested in the show. There is zero intrigue and every scene is filled with heavy handed exposition. It barely has anything to do with asoiaf at this point. All this TV show crap should be contained to its own subreddit.I think you said it well : the show has forsaken logic and common sense of the beginning to beautiful scenes.Don't forget when Edd asks Bran "How do I know you're really Bran?" Bran doesn't actually answer his question. He just says "I saw White Walkers." Like yeah, so did many wildlings and Night's Watchmen, that doesn't mean you're Bran, and it doesn't answer the question at all.But instead Edd is just like "Meh, come on in." Things are way too easy for the characters.Good points, even though I still think there are more and worse plot holes/difficult plot choices in the series. 

Euron seems to be very mediocre in comparison to his book version. 

I do not know what should stop Arya in whole Westeros from killing everyone on her list and more with ease. 
She can basically be every person she wants to be. We have seen how easy it was to poison Joffrey and the Walders. Nothing can stop her. Not even Ed Sheeran. I love you for this.

I'm not going to attack anyone for liking Game of Thrones, but I wish we could all admit how fucking stupid the writing is and how far from the books it has become. This premiere damn near felt like an episode of The Walking Dead to me, and 2 years ago I never would have thought I'd say that. I couldn't believe how "checklist" everything felt. Things just happened without any of the drama that should exist in that moment because everyone is just going through the motions. The only exceptions to that were the Hound and Dany, and even Dany's arrival didn't feel like it should have to me.

If you like it anyway, I'm glad. I wish I could enjoy it too, but I find it way too unsatisfying an adaptation for that. I also wish we could stop pretending such an averagely written show is the best show on television. Biggest spectacle? Yeah. Biggest cultural juggernaut? Yeah. Best show? No way.I agree with your main argument and most of your points.  That being said, you are very wrong about the Arya/Lannister scene.

You seem to have completely missed the importance of the soldiers breaking bread with Arya by offering her the first podtion of food and also giving her wine.  This is guest rite, and is one of the most important ideals of the North.  By having Arya have an internal struggle about not killing them, it shows that Arya's Stark identity is fighting against her No One identity.  Now, it appears the Stark identity won, but this can change if we find out she has killed the soldiers next week. That would mean she is definitely no longer a Stark.

But ultimately I agree with you when it comes to the quality of writing.  For example, one thing you didnt mention was how Euron went from having no ships to having the largest fleet in Westeros in a matter of a month or two.  There is no way he could build 1000 ships that fast, especially considering the sparse lumber of the Iron Islands.You forgot Euron Greyjoy actually pulling all of those ships out of his arse. Ok, maybe he didn't actually build a thousand, but the number is probably in the triple digits. We're looking at potentially years of labor, not to mention the amount of lumber required, and the Iron Islands didn't seem to be very lumber-rich in the first place. 

At any rate, I agree with the post completely. Yes, a few of the points are nitpicking that wouldn't be very interesting if shown on screen (for instance, Jorah rowing a boat into Old Town is something that can be skipped, it can be reasonably assumed that he got there fairly simply), but most are valid points. And the dip in quality between the early seasons and the current ones is so obvious, I don't understand how some people can claim that nothing has changed for them. Maybe if you go into this show expecting cheap thrills, cliché characters and simple plotlines that don't make much sense, then yeah, the current seasons are enjoyable. But then how the hell did you start with the early seasons and still found the show to be your cup of tea? It's so drastically different. 

Unfortunately, it is too late to stop the show from nosediving further. Most terrible writing decisions made in Seasons 5 through 6 have had a butterfly effect on the story, the plotlines couldn't be cleaned up anymore even if the writers started trying. But from the looks of things, they are not trying. They are perfectly comfortable with turning once-complex, interesting characters into one dimensional caricatures of their former selves (most of the ones mentioned on the OP's list) and hastily ending plotlines in ways that don't make sense (the Freys, for instance) just to please the audience and further condense the plot. 

I too once loved this show to bits, OP. I dare say I was fanatical about it, even. To me, as a mature fantasy fan, it was the single greatest thing that graced the screens of TVs ever. And now I find myself loathing it, as the show has become a former shell of itself. I'm glad to see this post is in the positive karma realm, though. It shows that the people who visit this subreddit, at least on some level, understand what we mean. However, the same can hardly be said for the casual audiences. Which is a shame.  That was a strong episode.

There wasn't a single stupid scene. Every scene was great character building, good action, or emotional and building future tension.

You've just set your mind to hate it.

For fucks sake, give it some fucking time.  King's Landing had the entire court, all the noble lords and ladies killed. All the Faith Militant killed. And a large portion of the city. The power remaining is City Watch, Lannister guardsmen, and Kingsguard. Who the fuck is going to rise against her? Oh yeah, LITERALLY THE TYRELLS AND DORNE. Revolts are sparked by flashpoints. They don't erupt from the ashes of a huge explosion.

If you don't like the show, stop watching. Don't get upset others still like it.Don't know if that has been mentioned in the comments already, but Davos lived at Dragonstone. He should know about the Dragonglass. It makes zero sense that he hangs out around Jon, reminding everybody about the real threat, but not knowing/telling everybody about the dragonglass mines.I'm wondering if we're going to see edmure again... is he at riverrun? Who is holding riverrun? Is arya just going to let him starve in a cell? 

Now in wondering if Jamie is going to kill cersei, but it's going to be for jealously of Euron.... I'll be so sad when that's the reason. I wasn't phased at all by the poor writing in the episode because the writing has been pretty bad since S4 already. It was especially bad in this episode, but it's not surprising. I imagine season 8 will droop from eyeroll inducing to outright laughable, though.

I especially agree with the end of the second dot point in your first point. Arya's 'revenge' is laughable and childish compared to the original red wedding. I also felt nothing during that scene. The show has very much become a parody of itself. In this way it reminds me of House of Cards season 5.

The 'structure' part of your post is just perfect and does an excellent job of crystallising what's wrong with the way D&D have decided to close out the show.

Great post.High school level storytelling from D&D.I agree with most of the OP. 
And i think if you focus on season 6 its get like 10 times worse. 
The whole Arya plot deosn't make any sense at all. (Doing parkour and stuff with a fresh step wound, dumbing the whole noone thing and just going home and nobody cares...)
NOBODY asks Jon why he isnt't in the nightswatch anymore.
He even says "when i was LC of the NW" and nobody gives a fuckin shit.

Even the Battle of Bastards episode...
I know everybody loves it.
And it was great in many technical things and showing how horrible a battle is but it had no fucking logic at all.

I still like the series but for completly dumb reasons.
It's just popcorn entertainment and fan service. Every interrest in complex caracter arcs is lost, it's like watching transformers almost.GRRM spent every Daenerys chapter in ADWD about the influences of undermining the current local politics, the power vacuum, the consequences of killing rulers and politicians etcetera. Now in the last 3 episodes equally big problems are created in Meereen, King's Landing, Dorne and the Riverlands. I'd be surprised if the show will spent one scene on the consequences of the sudden loss of power in those areas.Some points

>Where is the fallout of what happened to King's Landing last season? 

She has the gold cloaks and lannister soldiers to smash down any uprising. And unlike Tommen isn't afraid of doing so

>When did Arya learn to change faces to this extent? And how did she manage to [...]

Magic, infiltration, and careful planning. Showing the details would ruin the moment.

>Why has Sam's baby suddenly turned into a toddler

Because time on screen isn't the same as time in universe. Purpose of the shit montage for example is to show that he has been there for ages.

>Why has Sam only now remembered  [..]

Because he is human.

>why [..] is noone at Dragonstone? 

Maybe the small garrison that was there fled when they spotted the ships (and dragons). Maybe no one was there because it has no way of sustaining it independantly. Cersei is already spreaking her forces thin (and without much provision) because she has enemies on all sides. She can't afford to take every stronghold. She also hasn't exactly shown a very intelligent military mind.


>even children drank in the middle ages

In our middle ages, this is Westeros where Sansa also wasn't allowed to drink more than one cup a wine at dinner. Arya is younger than that.

>How did Jorah get to Oldtown?

Its a center for learning, if anyone knows the cure its the maesters. One person travels faster than a mobilising army (Dany). Dany is always on his mind, and he might be going mad from Greyscale so its maybe all he can think about.


> Dany is possibly my least favourite character these days. She seems to have either forgotten how to change her facial expression [...]

She is suppose to come of as weird. She is a Valerian, those aren't your ordinary people. Her coming off as strange is exactly how she is being told to act.

> Sansa [..] her character has flailed between power and powerlessness 

That is exactly the struggle she is supposed to be going through

> Jaime [..]

He has always been Cersei's plaything. The only reason he was changing because he was forced away from her. On his own he might be a good guy, but back at Cersei's side he is again blinded by love. This might seem pointless now, but can also serve to make a potential payoff even bigger.

> Brienne [.. and] Pod

Again a payoff might be coming. I dunno really on this one. They were just 'there' this episode. Doesn't mean good things can't come from that arc anymore.
Hear hear. Many valid points, and a few not so valid (I like Jamie as he is).
I still loooove the show but I agree that may of the characters and plot holes are deeply disturbing and shows a sign of the producers no longer having the books to follow and that they are more focused on fan service and action that explaining what is happening and filling in the blank spots in the plot.I'd say it was a very inconsistent episode, not an overall bad one. The Hound's scene was beautifully written, and I also liked Dany's return to her birthplace, the unrealistically empty castle be damned. 

I agree especially on Sansa and Arya, though. Sansa's advice was sensible, and so was her point about not underestimating Cersei - the exact mistake which the High Sparrow and the KL nobility made and paid for with their lives. But the way in which she gave her advice, publicly castigating Jon and sighing when he told her off, simply made her look like a clueless, obnoxious teenager again. It's way too obvious how the writers try to set up a conflict between the two, when something more subtle like her glance to Littlefinger in last season's finale saves the same purpose much more elegantly.

About Arya, the whole mechanism that she literally turns into another person when donning their face just seems extremely silly. Nobody noticed that their nonagenarian lord is being impersonated by a young girl who never personally met him and doesn't know his habits or relationships with other people? I know, magic and all, but when you introduce such a power, you have to make it fit with the story. With this capability, Arya could've simply ordered the Freys to attack the Lannisters, or she could take the Mountain's face and rampage through the Red Keep. I also thought her scene with the soldiers was clunky and shoehorned in there to convince viewers that despite her Hannibal-like antics and general penchant for murder, deep down she's still a good person who doesn't kill innocents. Arya is probably the most straightforward character in the book, and it doesn't do her justice to vacillate between these extremes.> Honestly, I'm astounded that there aren't more damning reviews of the Season 7 premiere, noting the huge dip in the quality of writing that's occurred over the past three seasons and the fact that the show is only nosediving further by the looks of it.  
  
There probably aren't because most people, including the reviewers, don't agree with you that the quality has dropped. A scene such as 'Sansa and Jon discuss what to do with occupied castles' is important, because it tells us something about the characters. A scene of 'Jorah finds a boat' *doesn't*. Similarly, a scene of 'Dany arrives at Dragonstone' is important for the emotional impact for the character and us viewers. A scene of 'before that, the Unsullied made a Secret Security-like sweep of the entire area' and/or 'mid through season 6, the leftover garrison decided that there is no merit to defending a castle for a dead king' and/or 'the pirate squatters saw the dragons and decided it's not worth it to stay' (take your pick) isn't. And so on.  
  
Also, that shit montage was a great thing. It very visually told us that Sam doesn't find his previous dream career to be that interesting, after all.I feel like the amount of vitriol this post is getting is out of line because 1) it's not like this criticism is unfunded, and 2) it's not like anyone else apart from people like us who live for this give a shit, so there's no harm in talking about it. 

Outside of a selected few GoT/ASOIAF related forums, Game of Thrones is practically considered to be the best thing since sliced bread at all times except for a few "so-bad-it's-impossible-to-ignore" exceptions (Dorne), and it's completely fine if people voice their disappointment with it for once. It's not bitching if it's fact based.


There's a lot of comments about how OP is being nitpicky and to some extent I agree with that statement. You can't expect the show to be as detailed as the books, but I also feel like a lot of the things you complain about don't amount to "BUT IN THE BOOKS-" angry fanboy talk...like at all. I actually agree with most of what OP wrote, and *especially* when it comes down to botched characterisations. 

When a show stops following *its own internal logic* (not even ASOIAF logic) as much as GoT has, and it starts to feel like it's being dumbed down and losing touch with core themes (ex: its original pretty anti-war stance) which were established since the very start, it's MANDATORY that someone call it out on it. Because the show is not only "not perfect", as people on reddit are used to saying to pretend like they're being diplomatic; it's getting progressively worse writing-wise. 

And there's literally no professional critic pointing that out at the moment. Not really, not in any significant way. The show is constantly winning Emmies for WRITING, for Christ's sake. There are dozens of better written show on right now and yet I still gotta hear from Entertainment Weekly about how this is the best thing since Breaking Bad when it clearly isn't.
OP may exaggerate in some points but a lot of viewers (including me sometimes) are just drunk on the high of having sort-of-ASOIAF content on their screens and a big CGI dragon budget. 

P.S.: Any man telling me Sansa's Bolton marriage, rape and revenge plot is good writing worthy of any internal (plot or character) logic or praise owes me 1 euroOh my god- finally someone who gets it. The show is a far cry from its original greatness, only servicing fans with "cool" moments. The subtlety gets less with each episode.

However I thought seas4 was still pretty good. The show also still has gorgeous cinematography.

Arya's arc was destroyed after they decided to drag out her adventures with the Hound. Her killing scenes are utterly pointless now - why not just waltz into KL disguised as a handmaiden and kill Cersei? Save us from her absolution. 

Btw if you want a show that never compromised its writing (or at least minimally) - check out Boardwalk Empire on HBO.
100% agree. While it is a bit unreasonable for the show to explain everything  you've mentioned you are bang on the money.

My biggest peeve was not seeing Cersei's reaction to the news of Daenerys' invasion. Considering the Lannisters have spent six seasons dismissing anything to do with Essos I would have been great to see Cersei's face upon hearing the fact that Dany and Tyriom are leading a fucking armada to Westeros.Let's be honest. You make a lot of good points, but I can't avoid the building excitement of seeing how it all will end. Yes, D&D have made mistakes, and it's probably getting harder for them because ... No more books. We really only have one person to blame. GRRM.It makes more sense if you realize that the show is the books made more palatable for a television audience. The rest of the series is going to be mostly catering to general viewers. They are keeping the bits that translate well on screen and can be concisely condensed to fit an entertaining show. 

The more we compare it too the books, the more disappointed we will be. Even the moments when the main cast does things out of character, or if some castle our House doesn't match with something from earlier, none of that matters. The show creators are mainly interested in what the general show watchers can digest and what speed they can keep up with.

Majority of them don't even know half of the characters' names, or which House they belong to, or who is supposed to be allied with whom. A huge percentage of the show's audience is there just to be entertained by cool knights in armor, the battles, the dragons, some mysterious monsters, and characters saying and acting badass on screen.

If you keep that in mind, it'll make experiencing the show much easier.I don't agree with a lot of this, but completely agree about Arya becoming a Deus Ex Machina.  That scene was ridiculous.  And I hope she and Bran don't both become all powerful killing and knowledge machines.  For example, if all of Littlefinger's lifelong scheming and ambition are undone because Brandon fucking Stark saw his betrayals in a tree vision it's going to be one of the stupidest scenes in the show's history.  Basically, Dorne again.I could go on and on how bad the show is now, but you sir explained it beautifully. 


Arya the magical overpowered face changer that can change voice and size(unlike the book where she only changed face, and always little girls as herself) has to be the most nonsensical fanservice decision of all time. Arya can now infiltrate and assassinate anyone now since the logistics of how she did it is always handwaved away. Shes heading to KL? Consider the whole court dead. Oh KL is harder to infiltrate than the Twins? How do you know? We never saw the infiltration in the first place....it happens if the showrunners want it to happen, and they dont care about the logistics.

But yes the characterization is by far the worst atrocity. I want conflict, and the characters challenging themselves.

Like Dany is supposed to drop peace and notion and embrace fire and blood with the meereen subplot, its the whole purpose of it. Yet the show she didnt learn anything there, she just left to go to westeros and ended the slavemasters in some vague manner, and the sons of the harpy were never explained they were just hired goons. Not like they are the people that live there or anything and want Dany to comprimise like in the books and Dany will end up rejecting the comprimising making it seem like she is the badguy, no they just wanted her dead and thats it.

Its horrible, and quite frankly unwatchable now.My main concern is that everything is starting to become very underwhelming. Episodes based on GRRM were very complex, deep, and believable. I feel like D&D are oversimplifying everything without the books. Now King's Landing = Cersei and Jamie, the Iron Islands = Euron, and so on. Every major party in Westeros has been reduced to one or two characters. There's no depth or complexity. GRRM would never do this.I agree with majority of your points. I do feel like this show could be much better than it currently is. However, I do think you have to take a point of separation like GRRM has said. 

The books are the books and show is the show. They can't do everything he does and have to rush or skip certain points to get things done on time. 

Also; to the folks in this thread, just because he has problems with certain parts of the show doesn't mean he doesn't enjoy it. Everyone is allowed to have their opinions and just because you disagree doesn't mean "these complaints are crap" or "lol tier nitpicks". This show isn't perfect. No show is perfect. You make fair points but even I'll admit some of them are a tad nitpicky, and trust me I looove a good nitpick. 

At the end of the day I think a lot of the fuck ups come down to the awkward structure of the books. Much of the Greyjoy uncle plots, mainly Euron's coronation, happen shortly after the Red Wedding in book timeline but because of budgets n shit the show was basically forced hold it all back until S6. And so I think the Jaime plot has suffered a similar problem. I imagine his redemption arc is going to have a pretty big pay off in the novels but the show is likely holding back on that pay off so as not to peak too early. If Jaime broke away from Cersei at the beginning of season 4, matching his book counterpart, then he basically wouldnt have anything to do for 3 seasons. It sucks balls for sure but its just the structure of television. I agree with you in general, but I don't think some of your criticisms hold that much water. 

I don't think the show has ever portrayed Arya as lacking empathy, so it hardly contradicts her character for her to be kind to people who were kind to her. Basically half of her stuff last season was about her inability to harm those she sees as decent people. If anything her sudden ability ti switch from murder to happily sitting having a chat makes sense because of her upbringing. Arya sees violence as entirely normal, so why would it phase her? I agree that the soldiers were a bit one dimensional, but the scene was far more about how Arya reacted to them than anything else. 

Also, on the point of the sept burning, I feel like it's pretty sensible that there isn't a revolt. I imagine the majority of the smallfolk are way too scared of Cersei to try revolting.This is the most-watched show in the world.

I have read the books and agree with you on alot of points but I sit at home and watch this with my roommates who constantly need reminding of who characters are and major plot points that they have forgotten.

You need to understand that they are catering to the masses now, not us. 
Wait for the book..I agree with almost of all your points. I have forgive the show all of this, however simply because many many problems are derived from the restriction of the format and the lack of exacting source material. It just is what it is and the real life restrictions become apparent. I mean, Ghost was a Ghost this episode not because they didn't want him there, but just like the battle of the bastards the producers probably had the same choice "Do we show giant wights or Ghost by Jon's side this episode?" I bet the poor direwolf lost his funding to the giants again! (I'm sure GRRM must be sitting there wishing if only the NY Giants could be so well funded!!!)

Some things **REALLY** grate on me like when I hear the same lines repeated over and over again because it seems so heavy handed for me, but I've just had to accept they aren't really writing this story for me, a meticulous book reader, but for the general show watcher out there that needs the repetition to help their memory. For them it's probably perfect. For us the best they can do is add in things book readers will have their memory jogged by, but not in ways that would overwhelm a show watcher (Alys Karstark for example).

But this is why I'm still eagerly awaiting the books. The books will have the time taken to be edited to improve every aspect of the story they could not do here. There is no real life restriction of the story except for the page count restriction because they are physically unable to bind past a certain number of pages in paperback form.

Someday I think this show will probably get the Star Wars treatment and have a whole bunch of effects added. Maybe if we're lucky the effects will be so good we can seamlessly fix actors mouth movements as we ADR replacement lines and add new scenes with them in them. Maybe then we'll get a more fluid story and have more fantasy elements able to be included in this fantasy story. Or so I hope.I feel you are a bit too nitpicky about the plot jumps, but I do agree with you about some characters (Arya for ex.) are suddenly too bland because they made her a terminator, and now she just killed an entire family. Too rushed, or just too drastic. Now she's going to see the "good" again in people. Doesn't feel like Game of Thrones. 

The dialogue and plot has dropped a lot from earlier seasons. It's not bad, but it just doesn't feel like the first few seasons of game of thrones. It's definitely because they don't have book dialogue to base the show dialogue off of (they only know the basic outline of the story), but the dialogue and plot feels really movie-like and hollywood, like between Jon and Sansa. Clegane's dialogue is good though.A lot of the problems you mentioned directly relate to the restrictions on the show. With only 13 episodes left, do you honestly think they can explain all of this? It would be filler. Sure it would make everything make more sense, but they can't afford to waste time on what essentially is filler. This is exactly how I feel.  I absolutely hated the episode.  I thought it was so poorly written.  The dialogue was basically characters explaining the plot to each other.  Remember when we fell in love with this show because of multi-dimensional characters and amazing dialogue?  Now its just cinematography and expensive cgi with lazy writing and forced along plot.  Heroes vs villains.  How stupid.

As for characters being entirely out of character.  How about Varys and Littlefinger!?  These were the great schemers and manipulators pulling all sorts of strings at the same time.  Keeping their motivations hidden and alliances unknown.  Now they are one dimensional bland followers whos motivations are pathetically right out in the open and meaningless.  They are entirely beholden to their respective choice of leader.  It is ridiculous.  We are supposed to just accept these amazing compelling scheming characters are just following people around outwardly expressing their desires and motivations and at the whim of their great hero leaders?  This show has really ruined itself.  It has forgotten what made it so great and unique in the first place.  

How the hell do they have Varys w/ Dany with no conversation between them!?  Remember that she Banished her most loyal and beloved advisor, Jorah, for the act of sending Varys letters.  She knows Varys tried to have her killed.  She openly despises him.  Now without a single on screen confrontation he is right beside her at every moment!?  Give me an F'ing break!  holy mother of nit-pickingI know everyone is in the afterglow right now and Im going to seem like a hater but this show is just dumb now. There is no nuance, no mystery, no thoughtfulness. It doesnt feel like ASOIAF at all. Im not reacting to last night, Im reacting to a few seasons.I agree with much of what you say. I've been complaining to friends about it for a couple of years. Hell, even my gf noticed and is pissed off!  
Slow...clap...these are all valid points. 

While I still enjoy the show, I will fully admit quality in writing has gone down since season 3. It's almost as if the shiwrunners discovered the buttons to push to get the reactions from viewers that they wanted and just kept on pressing those. 

The least they could do is stay consistent. couldnt agree more. 
not actually trolling.
Keep preaching dude. I know a lot of people around here hate Preston Jacobs, but even if you think his theories are crackpot you should watch his episode reviews because he hit upon most of the stuff you just mentioned in glorious fashion.I agree. The writing has been occassionally ass for the past 3 years. Some of your grievances are minor plot points though which can honestly be explained by suspension of disbelief. ITT I've seen some people defend D&D's writing because of "pacing". No. Just no. Rushing the seasons doesn't justify terrible characterizations like Sanaa's stupid arc this episode. If they wanted conflict between Jon and Sansa, they should have made Sansa wed Littlefinger to gain the Vale troops in S6. That would helped the B&B plot and given some real teeth to a potential Sansa-Jon conflict. It's about the emotion, and frankly, Sansa's behavior in this episode isn't justified or sympathetic. It's retardedly annoying and out of character for a hero.

Saying "we only have 7 seasons" is only a valid excuse for plot point conflation like Stannis's arc. If you're bored with the downtime focused on character interactions, that's just terrible writing.I have the opposite impression. 

It feels much better than last season. The last several maybe. You do realize that things happen off screen right? No motion picture comes without its fair share of flaws, say, human error. I think most of the creative liberties the writers took ended up damaging the characters in some way because they lack the time and imagination that GRRM has utilized. 

My biggest problems: 
More 1 liners than my tinder PMs
Sand Snakes: Desperate Housewives edition
 Disney's Ed Sheeran and the campfire boys (why the hell are they all so innocent? Isn't it a little too late to portray this narrative)?
The entirety of Sandor Cleganes script season 7 e1
The shit eating old town montage filler that hyped you up for some recycled information
And what the hell happened to Littlefinger?! Did they forget that he was a political mastermind?
When Sam realizes dragonglass is buried under Dragonstone and decides this is important, better tell Jon, I thought this was the strangest written moment in the show's 7 year run. Sam reminded the audience in literally the sentence before Stannis already told him this, but apparently Sam didn't believe him. Fine. He doesn't have to believe him. 

Even without believing Stannis, considering Sam himself killed a White Walker with dragonglass, he *really* didn't think it important to tell anyone? Never mentioned Stannis telling him this? Never said I don't believe him but here's what he said? Never asked Jon if it sounds legit? Never told Gilly? Or Edd? No one? Ever? I mean, come on. A guy calling himself King who set up shop on the island tells you there is dragonglass there and you never once mention it to a single living soul?

Only now because you happen to read it, you believe it? That was bizarre to me.[removed]> Where is the fallout of what happened to King's Landing last season? 

We've had two scenes in King's Landing neither of which showed anything outside the Red Keep. There could very well be mass unrest but we wouldn't know yet. 

> Why has Sam's baby suddenly turned into a toddler in what seems to be the timespan of about ten minutes

The point of the montage was to demonstrate that a lot of time has passed since Sam arrived at Old Town.

>  why the hell is noone at Dragonstone? 

If I was part of a Garrison of a hundred or so men holding a barren castle and I saw one of the largest armadas in the world and three dragons approaching, I'd run the fuck away.

> How did Jorah get to Oldtown?

The show has previously demonstrated that, like most people, Jorah is capable of travelling by boat.

> Why isn't anyone noting that the Dreadfort is now a free castle that can be given to the Northern Lords?

It probably was given to a northern lord, but it's not really relevant to what's going on at the minute so they didn't need to waste screen time showing us.


Finally....someone who was just as disappointed as I was. Yes, with the shortened seasons, we can't expect to get every detail worked into the episodes. Although,  it being a shortened season ....why did we get this cluster fuck of an episode that didn't advance one arc whatsoever. Jon & Company still at Winterfell/The Wall. Sam "Turd Tamper" Tarly showing off his newly acquired dragons in Old Town....Fudge Dragons that is.  Danerys landing on Dragonstone...Hell, everyone knew that's where she was headed at the end of season 6, why not begin with Her already landed and making preparations and battle plans etc. Arya still at The Twins in a Jim Jones "drink the kool-aid" plot hole fiesta. Jamie and Cersei scratching their ass in Kings Landing , where apparently it will be a couple more episodes before anything meaningful happens there. Jesus,  D&D...if you are going to give us 7 episodes in season 7, don't make S7 Ep1 feel and look like it's S6 Ep 11.  Rant over. LolSome fair points, others are lol tier nitpicks.>Honestly, I'm astounded that there aren't more damning reviews of the Season 7 premiere, noting the huge dip in the quality of writing that's occurred over the past three seasons and the fact that the show is only nosediving further by the looks of it.

I think its tougher to be honest about show flaws here during the season itself, posts like this take a lot of heat. But since I personally enjoy the show more when I deal with all the stuff that drives me crazy lol, it definitely helps to see posts like this. Really good writeup.Actually I think most of the people complaining would say the show was much better when it was an adaptation of the books. It started going to shit when they ran out of GRRM's material.Because if all you want to do is look for the flaws in something, you'll find it. Doesn't matter what. It can be the greatest of works in human history, but if all you're doing is looking for reasons it sucks, you're going to find a lot of reasons it sucks.

It's pretty tiring and/or pointless to argue with people like that, because even if you refute 50 points, they'll just bring up a 51st. There's no point you can reach where you've convinced them that the show isn't bad, because it's already taken as a given that it is, and they're just listing off arbitrary reasons for it.

Also, misunderstanding of basic literary concepts like plot holes, and inability to even parse or understand what actually happened on screen, makes it pretty pointless to even try and refute most of the stuff there.The Dany scene was forcefilly melodramatic. There needed to be dialogue in that scene, there was way too much they chose not to discuss.Wow, the Tyrion point is so weird now that I think about it. He's just kinda there with Danny, isn't he? There's no sense of what he's feeling or struggling with or, as the post says, his motivation as a character. He's just part of Team Dragon.Wish the font is bigger or can be zoomed (on mobile)The Alliser Thorne one is so trueFan fiction is all the theories around this sub. This is a licensed adaptation.Also the dialgue of sir jorah applies to cersei


"The people only care when they have their own shit together"


Most people probably don't give a shit about cerseiDon't suggest that crows should leave r/asoiaf.You mean shownlys? Because I'm sure 95% of us book readers here also watch the show.
So she just took out the lord of a particularly populated castle without any guards or servants seeing anything suspicious and dragged the body out to the river. Why doesn't she just walk into Kings Landing as Cersei then and do the same if it's that easy.

How did she butcher the bodies and cook them? did she make a huge clay oven "offscreen"? Did she learn how to make a pie all that time with Hot Pie and remember the recipe for dough? Where did she get the dough from. Yes, all of it could have happened 'offscreen', but it goes against all logic and is stupid.

I don't even watch the show, I don't know why I'm getting involved.Beric already has an eye-patch & so that's probably a big reason they didn't give him an eye patch. Also the fact that a commander of the greatest fleet in westeros wearing an eye patch sounds cliché may be anotherThis is a good idea. I just ended up quoting everything.> now they have completely abandoned the books, which is sad.

What books are you wanting them to adhere to at this point?I think the sub tilted towards defending the show more the last few months because we all feel burned by GRRM and realistically don't expect the books to be finished anymore. GoT is all we have now...but it's good to see people can criticize it here again (though this post is 54% upvoted).This sub has become r/GoT2Which one is actually a plot hole? I didn't see any that could be considered an actual plot hole.Yes another Preston fan I said the same thing. Watched that review twice last night lolNot sure if OP meant that, but what bothered me a bit about the lenght of the time which passed by is that shouldn't Randyll figured out by now that one of his biggest treasures -Heartsbane- is gone and sent someone after it ?Right?it's clearly been 5 years since crasters keep. Kidd grow fast. I have two toddlers. They go through big growth spurts a couple of times a year. It is not unrealistic at all.As well as these plot lines are not happening at exactly the same time.Overall, I think you are right, but Arya as Walder doesn't say "I know we JUST had a feast..." he says something like "I know you're wondering why we are having two feasts in a fortnight."To answer 1) she (as Walder) literally says in the same sentence you quote "within a fortnight". 

I'm sure OP understands the passage of time just fine, as do many others criticising the shows internal logic here. The issue isn't that time has passed off screen, it's that the passage of time in all of these separate plot threads needs to match up in places. I'd be thoroughly impressed if someone can come up with a reasonable timeline of each character from that episode continuing on from the end of s6 where they can feasibly meet up without a number of characters sitting around doing nothing for weeks> just sort of ill-fitting pieces thrown together. People are saying how well it sets up the season but they already delayed and shortened the season, something more substantial needed to happen.

Right, ill-fitting pieces that we will see fit together... And you think something rroe substantial should have happened in the first episode? No build up or story development or anything? I mean, Arya effectively neutered the entire Fray House within the first 5 minutes. After that it was just setting things up for the season.

> I think show Euron is also a shadow of book Euron, they've really messed up his character so far.

I definitely agree with you here. I don't know what they were thinking. He seems better in the brief scene this season than the last one, but I think the scenes from last season permanently damaged that character.Why is that sad? Would you rather the sub be full of Negative Nancies who nitpick about the show while also waiting dispiritedly for books that will never come?IMO, AFFC and ADWD contain some of the best prose GRRM has produced. Just because the stories they tell are slower paced and contain fewer huge events than ASOS, it doesn't mean the quality of the writing is "significantly weaker".>Where is Dany and Arya emotions?

Can't be showing emotion when you need to end the episode with a badass one-liner.yep, you can certainly say that againShe would have been too old to pretend to be sansa. Jeyne is only a couple years older than Arya, but Ros seemed like she was at the very least 10 years older than sansa.This one stood out to me.  Seemed he just doesn't like her and can't articulate why because these are contradictory criticisms.  I agree that OP contradicted himself, but I can't see that scene as "wonderfully done" at all.  Here's how I took that scene: (note: I had heard of Ed Sheeren before, but didn't know that was him until I saw people complaining about it afterwards, so that part didn't bother me at all)

Arya Stark, who has been training with the Faceless Men for a decent amount of time, kills off basically the entire Frey line using magic and cunning.  Definitely didn't feel as cathartic as I had hoped, but whatever that's a whole different conversation.

So after destroying one of the largest houses in Westeros, the super assassin comes across a troop of young Lannister men.  They are kind to her, offer her food and drink ("are you old enough to drink?" struck me as super weird) and she decides not to immediately kill them all, which she is obviously capable of doing.  She looks nervous at the beginning which to me makes absolutely no sense considering what she just did at the beginning of the episode.  The scene ends with the (to me) incredibly cringey moment of them asking her why she's heading to king's landing.  "No One" who has been extensively trained in lying, and has spent the last 6 fucking seasons becoming a goddamn ninja assassin goes "I'm going to kill the queen."  There's an awkward pause, and then everyone starts laughing.  Ha ha, she was being serious but they thought she was joking!  What a hoot!

I have to ask myself what the point of that scene was.  To me, it seemed to exist only to tell the audience that Arya is heading south rather than north.  This doesn't make much sense to me, it seems nuts that she wouldn't hear about Jon and Sansa being in winterfell, and actually having a home to go to for the first time in years.  Also, a lot of people are predicting that next week she will change her mind and head north anyway, so again: what's the point of this scene?  To show that not all soldiers are bad?  This has been a theme through much of the show, and Arya has already had plenty of opportunities to learn this lesson.  What about all the shit she did with the hound?  Or her time with the nights watch?  

It's just frustrating to me because there are only 12 episodes left, and that entire scene seemed pointless and corny.Sam emptying chamber pots and gagging for 20 minutes was this season's version.Why would cleaning staff remain behind when there is no new food coming in because there is no money?  They are on an island with winter coming and no money - people in their right mind would go home to their families. Feast of crows wasn't even good to begin with...so the books shouldn't be put on a pedestal> All this TV show crap should be contained to its own subreddit.

r/asoiaf has always allowed and welcomed show discussion, and we intend to do so in the future.  

r/pureasoiaf does not allow show discussion, and may be of some interest to crows looking for more book-focused content during the show season.  

And feel free to post book-focused threads here to keep the discussion going.  There's always people around to talk about subtle nuance and grease running down chins and other book-only content.  Yeah, fuckin' Bran, that kid has it way too easy. Literally nothing ever goes wrong for that kid. The Ed Sheeran thing was irritating. I didn't even know who he was but it was clear be was supposed to be a big guest star. It's not even the best show on Sunday nights at 9 right now.Huge change in Euron's personality and mannerisms as well.  The actor is clearly playing him in a different light this season.Didn't Arya technically break guest rite with the Frey's?I'm curious how he got into Blackwater Bay without running into Daenerys' navy, too...Um, revolts absolutely spark from the ashes of explosions. 

You know, "Oh shit the cultural and religious center of Westeros just exploded. Oh shit, we're finding out the High Septon, the most powerful man in the city, and the Tyrells, who ended the food shortages that sparked a mob attack on the royal family before, died in that explosion. So did so and so's wife, or so and so's son, or so and so's secret lover. Oh, and now the Lannister bitch we revolted against once already is trying to claim power. Hey, we should do something about it!"

That's EXACTLY how revolts start, because that explosion not only destroyed the Great Sept, it destroyed society as people knew it. Saying there's no one left but City Watch, Lannisters, and Kingsguard does not help your argument. It just raises further questions why the people didn't revolt against such a small defense when the main thing keeping them docile vanished.The mines of dragonglass are underneath the castle. There is no reason for him to know. Maybe Stannis (show version) himself doesn't know. They made a point that they decorate weapons with it.
Davos was a smuggler in dragonstone, no reason to know what the castle was built on. And then, even when he became a knight and Stannis's right hand guy, nobody thought dragonglass was worth anything, it was hardly need-to-know info At some point, every line will be either trailer bait or designed for t-shirts.

Edit: and eye-roll inducing double entendres Does anyone even know Jon died and was resurrected? Has he talked to *anyone* but Mel about it?Guarantee the Freys will never be mentioned again (except maybe for someone receiving the news). The sudden loss of the Lord paramount and his heirs will mean nothing. It was just revenge porn fan service."simply ordered the Freys to attack the Lannisters" .... how is that simpler at all? simply organize all your forces, implement some grand military scheme, wait months for revenge that may not even come knowing full well the Lannisters army could probably crush the Freys - all while still pretending to be Walder (making yourself even more susceptible of being found out) and knowing nothing about organizing an army.

if she had spent all that time to do that, everyone would've just been like "why didn't see just poison all the Freys while she was at the twins?"what do you mean arya is the most strraightforward? one of my favourite scenes in the books is when arya abandons sandor because she can't kill him. on one hand she wants to avenge mykah and on the other she has grown to sorta caring for him. she is not a killing machine, she is still troubled about her feelings.> About Arya, the whole mechanism that she literally turns into another person when donning their face just seems extremely silly. Nobody noticed that their nonagenarian lord is being impersonated by a young girl who never personally met him and doesn't know his habits or relationships with other people?

Why the hell do you think Arya was posing in the Frey household as a serving girl? So get her ass grabbed by Bronn?

The "Seond feast in a forthnight" implies that she spend a while there gathering intel before killing Walder, impersonating him to call everybody in to a feast and then offing him. 

Maybe they just though that all those elistist ASOIAF fans might have some resdiual intelligence and don't need to be spoon-fed every single detail.> Nobody noticed that their nonagenarian lord is being impersonated by a young girl

Seems like she just called a meeting and did the deed. It's not like she shook everyone's hands on their way in. 

> who never personally met him

She did personally meet him, when she killed him. 

> and doesn't know his habits or relationships with other people?

Most people, myself included, agree Arya-Walder's mannerisms were distinctly off during the speech.

> Arya could've simply ordered the Freys to attack the Lannisters

I don't think young girl Arya is interested in battle logic, more just getting gruesome revenge on those that have wronged her family.

> or she could take the Mountain's face and rampage through the Red Keep

Wouldn't she have to kill the Mountain first?

> I also thought her scene with the soldiers was clunky and shoehorned in there to convince viewers that despite her Hannibal-like antics and general penchant for murder, deep down she's still a good person who doesn't kill innocents

Or, maybe she's not yet a one-dimensional killing robot and the point of the scene was to show she (and the people she kills) are still human.

> Arya is probably the most straightforward character in the book, and it doesn't do her justice to vacillate between these extremes.

Or, maybe the show is doing her justice by adding layers to her character instead of making her so straightforward?About the power, it was introduced to us with Jaqen H'qar literally in season 1, and then again in subsequent seasons.

Arya could have tried to get the Freys to kill the Lannisters, but 1) she wanted revenge on the Freys for killing Rob, and 2) the Frey army would not have agreed to attack King's Landing, they'd have immediately known something was up, 3) even if they did attack King's Landing, they'd all be cut down almost immediately by the superior swordsmen of the Lannister army.

As for taking the mountain's face and rampaging, she's working her way to King's Landing but wanted to get revenge on the people who killed her brother/king first. In case you forgot, they are as guilty as the Lannisters. We also don't know that Arya would receive all of the Mountain's strength if she took his face, do we?He was a crotchety old man who didn't keep anyone close and she obviously scouted him out for a while first while she planned the initial assassination. She probably spent a decent amount of time gathering information on the red wedding to know who was responsible> Also, that shit montage was a great thing. It very visually told us that Sam doesn't find his previous dream career to be that interesting, after all.

I mean it served it's purpose and definitely got a giggle out of me, but it wasn't weird for you?  It just seemed tonally way off from every other scene in the show.  Someone in another thread I can't find right now described it as the camera being aware of the viewer for the first time, which I thought was apt.

Again, it did what it needed to, but it really pulled me out of the show.Tbh, GOT's writing is prob only mediocre at best right now and is definitely the weakest aspect of the show. It's not a good example of good writing. GOT is a monumental success because of 

* The strength of the source material
* Momentum from previous seasons where the show was faithful to the books
* Pretty much being top fucking percentage in every other category besides writing (CGI, costume, choreography, etc)
* Once again, GODLIKE DIRECTING
* Incredible visual storytelling that comes from both writing and GODLIKE DIRECTING

As far as plot writing or character writing goes (character writing includes dialogue), the show is terrible. Compare the Tyrion Missandei Grey Worm joke dialogue to dialogue in Season 1 Mentalist or even the cringey Missandei Grey Worm "romance". Everytime D&D show their hand behind the veneer of GRRM's writing, they show that, had GRRM not been involved and provided such good source material to be faithful to, this show would have sucked ass. The only real great original piece was S2 Arya and Tywin. 
>1) it's not like this criticism is unfunded

Almost all of it is unfounded. His list of plot holes is almost entirely a list of details that he wanted shown that just weren't. That isn't a plot hole. 

His opinions are bad and they are being treated thusly.  Seriously, the default argument against any show writing complaint is "they can't do it like the books." Just look at these comments.

But here's the thing, these criticisms are not just book snob nitpickery you have to delve deep to notice. They are complete breakdowns of the internal logic of the world and its characters. And no one seems to give a fuck. It can be absolutely infuriating to see the praise absolutely terrible plot holes receive, where no one gives a crap how little sense it makes within the show's own logic.

And we know that's not in next episode how?Didn't she already react that? She blamed Jaime for it. > Every major party in Westeros has been reduced to one or two characters. There's no depth or complexity. GRRM would never do this.

Thats precisely why the show will have an ending and the books won't. The books are massively bloated at this point; I have no idea how GRRM will ever reel it all in.
To be fair if this was easy or just not extremely difficult, wouldn't grrm have actually published the next books? Or, maybe since the story is coming to a close, most of the main characters have died and we are focusing on the ones who are remaining from the beginning of the story. Do you think GRRM will be introducing new smallfolk and what they're eating for breakfast during his final book, if he ever gets there?I don't agree with a lot of what OP said. But this is spot on. To meet the needs of television. Its being oversimplified. Its why asoiaf was unadaptable in the first place. They are trying to tell an unconventional story in a conventional way. >If Jaime broke away from Cersei at the beginning of season 4, matching his book counterpart, then he basically wouldnt have anything to do for 3 seasons

Well, yeah... but only if you cut out or fail to bring back:

- Ilyn Payne
- Genna Lannister
- Cleos Frey
- Lady Stoneheart
- Lem Lemoncloak
- Anguy
- Jonos Brackens
- Tytos Blackwood
- Raventree Hall
- Pennytree 
- Osmund Kettleblack
- Boros Blount
- Llewys Piper
- Garret Paege
- Josmyn Peckledon
- Pia
- Glory
- Honor
- Bonifer Hasty
- Wylis Manderly
- Red Ronnet Connington 
- Daven Lannister
- Ser Kennos of Kayce
- Hoster Blackwood

He would totally have nothing to do.... 
God I hope the books just don't do you all the justice you seem to think you deserve. I hope it's as bad as the torture it was to watch this television episode. I don't mind seeing criticism from hard core book fans or vitriol from show only people but you nailed it. My show only friends argued with me that Jorah was dead in the show AFTER watching the season 7 premiere... according to them he was left to die in the desert so apparently that wasn't spelled out enough in the show. They don't remember who Euron was... you get it. These aren't idiots, they are casual fans enjoying a TV show. They forget things because they haven't invested their time to rewatch the show, read the books (or reread the books), or get on a fan forum.  Unfortunately, many casual fans don't find the same pleasure in exhausting every detail and interpreting the slightest nuances that book fans do. Even with the plot clearer, characters reduced and simplified, and details spelled out a random show only watcher likely has to go on google, reddit, or YouTube to keep up. 61 nearly hour long episodes, and counting, that contain more content than 90% of the average shows on TV is a lot for a casual TV watcher.

Now I wait to get picked apart. Let's do this.It would be better filler than a 5 minute shit cleaning montageI like the complex and nuanced character stories, but fan praise has replaced them with good vs. evil, trailer fodder, one-liners, and cinematography.You're so right about Littlefinger. He has no more schemes, no more balls in the air. He just follows Sansa around asking her if she's happy like a nervous teenage boy on a date. 

"Are you having a good time?"> The dialogue was basically characters explaining the plot to each other. 

Yessss.  On one hand I could see a marketing reason for "catching up" an audience that has been away or is onboarding now.

But I have a terrible suspicion that they struggle with thinking of things for characters to say to each other for an hour, so they swap plot recaps to remember the good times when things happened.

Or to get more technical: scene after scene where characters interact without pursuing objectives.  There is a high reliance on standing around describing the world, and not enough interest in exploring how they are going to change it.  Waiting around for Dany/The Night's King/Azor Ahai/Sandor Clegane to come isn't actually all that dramatic.As Linda put it "they don't know what characters should say". But this doesn't just go for the characters they've written into dead-end narratives. It goes for all of the characters. They only ever had a high school English class-level of understanding of the story they were adapting. Now that they can't copy-paste dialogue from the books and the characters' journeys are so off-the-rails they have no meaningful or consistent voice to put in anyone's mouth.

Characters are not talking as if they exist in a fully-formed world anymore. They're just spewing raw plot, raw motivations, raw themes.yeah, one of the things I loved the most about the first few seasons was the moral ambiguity of characters.  Remember[ this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CY5As-RP1MM) scene?  Holy shit that was great!  There's plenty of exposition in there, but the characters just seem human.  Interestingly, this scene never happened in the books, so D and D obviously are (or were?) capable of writing actually interesting dialogue. 

 Now Cersei is just pure evil, and I don't find her interesting to watch.  Which is a shame because Lena Hadley is wonderful, and she used to be one of my favorite characters.  

Is there a single character at this point who isn't 100% good or evil?  I get that there has to be a climactic battle for Westeros, but it's a shame that everything else has to be totally ignored.

Also, is anyone buying the Sansa/Jon conflict?  It just seems so incredibly forced to me.  I used to fucking love the Starks and I was bored that whole scene.Agreed. Mindblowing how defensive this board is.Preston is the greatest.  I think of all the theorists he is going to end up having the most predictions correct.  The way he analyzes the text is just awesome.  Also his parody and mocking of the show is fantastic stuff.  Even Jacobs acknowledges he's probably mostly wrong, but theorizing is fun either way, and he mostly brings up valid points. It was gloriously fierce lol;)Or use the very obvious conflict opportunity: Jon, bastard born as far as they know, was named king over Sansa, who is trueborn and has always bought into the "bastards are inferior and treacherous" idea, and was recently brutalized by a legitimized bastard. Or make it clear that Sansa resents Jon for what happened to Rickon (who they didn't even fucking mention)Who told you Sansa was a hero? Better than 6/1-8, but episode 9 & 10 of last season were great.Then just watch a blank screenToo much happens off screen that makes no sense and leaves the audience to explain everything, which they often do only to have those explanations invalidated by the next episode, and the cycle repeats again. 

This is how this show works now. Things don't make sense, fans try to make sense of it, and then future episodes just keeping making less sense. How do people not realize this? [removed]The Lannister men were infuriating. Every time we've seen soldiers before, they've been crude, shit-talking brutes. It's a hard world, and the sweet, innocent baby faced boys are just ridiculous They want to give credit to Sam and not to Stannis. Because god forbid anything that Stannis did was not evil.It felt like such an, 'and then...' moment, which is the thing all writers are told to avoid like the plague.Stannis said "we have it on Dragonstone" and abruptly changed the subject to what Sam did with it, as if it wasn't that significant.

Sam said "but I didn't think...."

The rest of that sentence would be ".... that there was a fucking mountain of it".

There are probably small pockets of dragonglass all over Westeros (hence Jon saying they need to start mining it), so there being some on Dragonstone is not remarkable. The motherlode of it, is.I disagree with much of the OP. But I do agree this Sam scene seemed forced. Seems like it's true intent was to provide a plot reason for Jon Snow to head to the location Daenerys now is.[Be civil to your fellow crows](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy). > If I was part of a Garrison of a hundred or so men holding a barren castle and I saw one of the largest armadas in the world and three dragons approaching, I'd run the fuck away.

I'd understand this better if Season 2 wasn't about beating you over the head on how Dragonstone and it not being in Lannister hands makes Kings Landing at risk.

Dragonstone is right across the Bay in terms to Kings Landing, so yeah 3 Dragons being within flying distance to destroy Kings Landing? You might want to put a garrison there.

In response to your - I'd leave... and go where? Back to Kings Landing where you're summarily executed for leaving your post? Good thing we have a sane queen in KL so you know you can plead your case.>why he hell is no one at Dragonstone?

It's said in the show that it was abandoned by Stannis wholesale when he went north. The simple reasoning: Stannis desperately needed soldiers so he wouldn't spare anyone to stay behind protecting a castle he had no plans to return to. 

The real question: why didn't anyone else have the thought to go and occupy the castle?

The answer is more complicated a mix of Dragonstone itself not being a particularly wealthy patch of land. When Stannis and Davos visit the Iron Bank in Bravos he is asked about the crop yield, population, and others, the answer is 0 across the board. So the only reason to occupy it is to deny it to your enemies. 

The houses who have fleets don't need the anchorage to keep their fleets. The houses with the men to station the castle already have fortresses of their own. 

After the Rebellion Stannis took it as a slight he was given Dragonstone instead of Storms End, but he did his duty. Aside from a symbolic and historic place there is no strategic value to Dragonstone. So why waste the men in this day and age, *(years of war have depleted the armies of their great houses and winter is ~~coming~~ here)*, why waste the men protecting a strategically insignificant island?

I don't need the 5+ minutes of screen time it would take for them to spell it out for me and I'm glad they didn't waste the time. Accepting that the show has necessarily deviated from the books, my biggest beef these days is with the quality of the dialogue. I can deal with narrative shortcuts that make the plot filmable, but often I feel like a character is basically looking at the camera and saying, "Remember, audience? This is my motivation."

Sentences are short, recapitulation is rampant, and the scripts seem directed at the stupidest people that might be watching. That last point you made doesnt make any sense. They mentioned Karhold and Last Hearth but not the Dreadfort. And you'd say that's because those two are closer to the white walkers but just think about how actual conversations go.

When Sansa is saying that Karhold and the Dreadfort should be given to new families wouldnt she at least say something like 'give them to new families like you did with the Dreadfort'. Or at the end once Jon makes his decision she would say something like 'At least give the Dreadfort to a new family'.

Unless they have some special plan for the Dreadfort coming up, it was just a massive gaping hole in that scene. > If I was part of a Garrison of a hundred or so men holding a barren castle and I saw one of the largest armadas in the world and three dragons approaching, I'd run the fuck away.

That's not how sieges work, a garrison of 100 men could hold off invaders due to the advantages the stronghold provides. additionally if you knew an invading force was arriving by sea from the east then you would send a much larger force to hold dragonstone as it is incredibly strategically important (which is why robert gives it to stannis in the first place).How would you run away? It's a fucking island.*most* are lol tier nitpicks tbh. which is a shame. it detracts from the valid points brought up. there is a lot of stuff being skipped (as far as we know; we're only one episode in and there could be more explaining in future episodes)Just look at the response to this post. It's more critical than most, but a lot of people are dismissing it whole cloth. "Just enjoy the show, man". That shit went out the window when it became clear that the show is going to end pretty soon and it's a huge enough culturally that avoiding spoilers will be pretty much impossible. So the show will almost certainly give us at least part of the ending of the series. You can either watch it until then so you can get the lead up or it can be spoiled next year without show context.I felt I was taking crazypills before I finally found someone that shared my views. Check out Preston Jacobs videos on YT, he has deep knowledge of the show and books, and covers the episodes plot holes in his latest video.Yeah I agree. People defend the bad writing way too much. You can still love the show ( I do) while criticizing the plot holes, lazy writing, and stupid fan service. I don't think the people who make these arguments think the show is bad, or don't enjoy watching it. If that was the case, they wouldn't bother putting in the time and effort to write a critique of a show they don't like. While I agree that some of OP's points are nitpicks, I think he brings up some worthwhile arguments. that's why it "feels" like a fan fiction.> So she just took out the lord of a particularly populated castle without any guards or servants seeing anything suspicious and dragged the body out to the river.

I don't know. We aren't shown what happens. We did see that she is the only person in the feast hall with him at the end of the feast.

> Why doesn't she just walk into Kings Landing as Cersei then and do the same if it's that easy.

That's what she is planning on doing.

> How did she butcher the bodies and cook them?

She could have done this anywhere. She doesn't need to cook them. The cook does. She just has to make mincemeat out of them.

> Where did she get the dough from. Yes, all of it could have happened 'offscreen', but it goes against all logic and is stupid.

You're doubting this because you doubt a girl could make a pie...?If they wouldn't have skipped/fast-tracked plots from AFFC and ADWD then they would have had a lot of material to adaptDragonstone being completely unmanned. It's not necessarily a plot hole, but it should have at least been acknowledged that it was odd.Which is a plotline we might very well see come up during the season. It wouldn't necessarily happen in the first episode.**Heartsbane** is a pretty big deal. Randyll would surely notice that it's gone, wouldn't he?I think the whole Arya murdering the majority of a house in five minutes is what im talking about though. I think the writing has struggled since it moved past the books because they lost the outline they used to navigate what is an incredibly complicated web of characters and stories.  The whole frey murdered thing seem incredibly rushed similarly to killing Doran and Hotah last year basically saying we need to hurry and smash these two ill fitting pieces together so we get to see Jon and Arya meet up again or whatever.It's not actually an either-or.  There's room for both!Yes.I agree with you that the prose were stronger, but I still find the books significantly less engaging. Toll The Hounds by Erikson is his best written, but also the weakest in the series imo.

What's the show to do with prose? What are they gonna do with characters that George probably doesn't even know what's to happen with them? I'm honestly surprised the show is even watchable. She looks nervous at the beginning because she's trying to figure out whether she needs to fight these guys or not. She may be a killing machine now but it still would require effort on her part to kill a group of Lannisters should they turn on her. 

And the fact that she told them what she was going to do was just another part of that. At that point she had figured out where all their weapons were and what their weaknesses were, so she specifically said what she was going to do to see their reaction. If they had reacted to that with aggression then she would've just murdered them, but since they played it off as a joke she got her final reassurance that these guys aren't going to cause trouble for her. That's what she was doing there. 

But the other effect of the scene was bringing her back down to earth from her murder spree, she needed to see some of that humanity in order to not completely lose her senses. We'll see how that affects her decisionmaking from now on.Because you don't typically empty out your entire castle when taking your army off to war. People live and work there all the time. Think of Winterfell when Robb marches south. You can explain it away with logic like what you say, or "well they probably saw the ships coming and decided to abandon their posts" or whatever, but it's still weird and isn't addressed in the show.That is not what I meant. I meant that particular scene was too easy for him.These events probably aren't happening at the same time.So 9/11 got everyone all riled up and ready to fight? Or the Boston Marathon bombing? Or San Bernadino? Revolts happen from flashpoints from long simmering unrest.

When a fucking bomb goes off in the city, it doesn't spark a damn revolt. There's nothing to hit back at. There's no one ready to hit back if they even knew who it was. The Faith Militant and all the possible unhappy or rival nobles are dead.

All that's left is Cersei, Cersei's guards, and peasants. And the peasants don't know fuck all. They still have food because the Tyrells were still invested in the city. Their grain doesn't magically disappear.

This isn't a valid gripe in the slightest. WE HAVEN'T EVEN SEEN OUTSIDE THE RED KEEP YET. 

Study any damn riot you want in history.But wouldn’t a smuggler be a pretty good source of this information? I mean, Davos knows all the sneaky ways around castles, that’s how he saved Stannis during the siege. So it would make sense for him to tell Jon that there is a bunch of dragonglass on dragonstone. I see her as a pragmatist who takes the world for what it is and does what she has to do in order to achieve her revenge. She's much less self-reflective than most other characters and rarely grapples with ethical questions. On the other hand, you also don't see her taking much pleasure in killing, something which the show has played up recently - to the point where she apparently chopped up the younger Freys and baked them into a pie for Walder to eat, which would put her on Ramsay's level of psychotic sadism. To balance that out, the writers apparently felt the need to include scenes like the ones with the soldiers or the actress to maintain her as a sympathetic character. That's what I meant with extremes.Based on the "second feast in a fortnight" dialogue, she impersonated him for between one and two weeks. Seeing as how he's one of the most powerful people in the realm, she would've had to interact with a lot of people whose prior dealings with him she couldn't possibly have known. Then she poisoned his whole family and simply waltzed out of the castle, leaving several witnesses. If that's the extent of her power, she's basically a god-like, unstoppable killing machine now, and there'd be no plausible challenges left in her path. That would be a radically new direction for a story that mostly understated its magical elements in favor of realistic settings and people who rely on their personal skills. That's my question: if taking someone's face allows her to perfectly match her voice and stature to the original owner's, where does that power stop? Would she turn into a seven-foot undead super-soldier if she donned Clegane's? Would she be able to command dragons with Dany's? This skill is just way over the top. The books and show made a point of having her study traditional means of subterfuge, to the point where she was sent to learn from a theater troupe, only for all of that to be meaningless because all she really needs is someone's face. > wasn't weird for you?  
  
Not really. I thought that it was an interesting experiment, maybe? Like, remember when the show didn't use flashbacks... until it did. But then, I'm a Breaking Bad/Better Call Saul watcher, so I'm used to lengthy montages.I don't agree. OP's points about characterisation and structure are more than fair. The plot holes he points out aren't that important, but the criticism OP gives right after is fair. The show does have enormous problems with inconsistent characterizations, there is development that gets dialed back, there are more ret-cons than I care to keep track of, and there are really, really problematic and sexist issues in this narrative. I know Preston Jacobs gets a bad rap around here, but his review of Season 6, which  explicitly avoided any mention of the books, showed how flawed the show was on its own merits.Can you give examples of these? Within the show's internal logic. Bar Arya's faceless man magic shenanigans. I find it hard to believe that she would acknowledge Dany and her armada in episode 1, and then react to it as if it was news in episode 2..But she already knew about it, and was telling Jaime. I wanted to see the exact moment she found out.They same way he reeled it out, by being a terrific writer. yes...ugh...yes he will.  We'll probably get an Asshaii POV and some more in-depth Arianne nipple descriptions as wellThere's already too many characters for the average watcher to follow. I watch the show with my sister and half the time she doesn't know who's who. You can't compare the average show-watcher to someone who has the read the books a couple of times. Adding more characters to an already overcrowded cast is not the answer. Still better than feast for crows


Don't put the books on a pedestalWe've only had two damn episodes of LF in the North. Give him a bit of time. From his smile in the S6 finale, I would be pretty shocked if he has nothing up his sleeve.

Doesn't he still have an entire army, loyal to him? Didn't a couple of other Starks die in a similar situation?lol, tbh LF being powerless in the north is 100% true to the books, his schemes dont work up there. the problem is they took him there in the first place. now i'd say they're handling it pretty well."Are you happy?" Like, has Littlefinger ever asked anybody those words? Other than the customers of his whores when they pay him maybe lol? 

Yeah, 'nervous teenage boy on a date' was exactly what I thought as well during this scene.It's at the level of CW's "The Vampire Diaries" for that. The start of each episode always has two characters having a chat and they casually recall what happened last episode to get the viewers back to speed. I was getting so many vibes of that over the course of the episode.
[deleted]Yeah, we know full well they can write really good dialogue and scenes that weren't in the books. Blimey, Seasons 1-3 had loads of them.

But it just hasn't happened since Season 4. Dialogue is very heavy handed and indeed, just characters reciting plot at each other. No chance for meaningful conversations anymore. So much of it is just "the Red Wedding this, Red Wedding that" 

It's hard to be excited about all these Freys dying personally given Robb died so long ago.Saw in the episode discussion thread, someone said something about how almost every line has to be designed to fit on a shirt in the Zazzle shop.Absolutely right. And it's pretty apparent, sadly. 

"Father always said everything that comes after but is bullshit."

Clever. Cersei was never someone of any moral nuance...she is always fifty shades of bitchI really hope he is right about a bunch of stuff it would be pretty greatExactly, I enjoy his videos more for the points he brings up that make me think about things in a different way than I do because I believe his theories. I do buy into some of them though hahaUnfortunately, they can't even do that after [this scene] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aMoFWYPYr74) and then continuing this scene's established relationship tone for the reast of the season. Sansa clearly doesn't care that Jon's a bastard. She even says so multiple times. She also isn't an ambitious person and so doesn't care about the KitK title. (As opposed to say, Yara, Dany, book Arianne, Stannis, or Cersei, or Renly). 

If they wanted that conflict, they should have the made the relationship way more distant, like a Cat-Jon relationship. Which, funny enough, even makes total sense considering Sansa's arc, her growing parallels to Cat, her childhood distance from Jon, wanting a Hero Prince but never seeing him when he shows up (Hound, Tyrion, Jon), etc. But they didn't do that, so it'd be ridiculous to make a "he has my claim" be the conflict. You put all that work in and then backtrack at the last second? Terrible writing. Presumed character meant to be liked/empathized with. Maybe the D&D wanted us to hate her more than Joffrey. Personally though, considering her past arcs, probably not. No complains about S6E10, it was an amazing episode. 09 though? Had a few cringe worthy scenes. It was a well choreographed episode, but the writing itself was bad. Jon's war council, the complete failure the battle was until Knights of the Vale ex-machina show up, Ramsey's beat down and death, the death of Won Won, jons pre-battle parlay with Ramsay, Sansas bitch fit without bringing up the Knights. 

Idk a lot just struck me as off.Funny that 5 and 6 were really bad seasons, but they contained some of the best episodes. All because of that Sapochnick dude.Sopranos did this alreadyI agree, we are supposed to "Imagine" Arya draging 2 heavy bodies grinding them up and then baking them into a pie, all without getting caught, that is completely impossible and yet it's the only bullshit explanation we have, thanks to the writers not questioning their own work.And Stannis is no longer a character in play on the show, so they want to make Sam's significance to the current narrative greater.  I assume that would be the logical reasoning behind the decision, although it does give me a lot less of a sense of moral outrage for the defamation of The One True King of WesterosI feel you, I too miss Stannis :(I have seen a lot of people say this, that Stannis didn't specify a large amount but how does that matter? If you're looking for a special resource and someone has it you would at least ask about it. Not dismiss it because he didn't say a mountain full of it. Logically Sam/Jon would have asked how much he has and how they could get it since they'll need every piece to win the war
This is the correct answer. The quality/amount of the deposit of obsidian on Dragonstone  was unknown to all (the living) before this point.

Also, notice that when Dany lands there appears to be mine entrances (natural caves?) on Dragonstone. I was thinking this could be significant later on in the season.Yeah, Jon knows about the dragonglass. Sam has told him, but didn't know the ammount on dragonstoneI actually think that Jorah will bring Sam there.From a show-writing point of view, it makes sense. It seems it was either that, or have Jon suddenly remember out of the blue something that Sam mumbled about a year ago, and awkwardly bring it up in dialogue, then propose a risky trip to find some dragonglass with no hard evidence to back it up. It was forced, but the obsidian on Dragonstone needed to be reintroduced in a viewer-friendly way this season. Strategically insignificant island?  It is literally a near impregnable fortress sitting in the mouth of Blackwater Bay.  A perfect foothold for an invasion of Westeros (which it was already used for by Aegon).  This fortress is of insurmountable importance.  It makes zero sense that the Lannister's would not occupy it if they knew it was abandoned.  

A strategically important castle does not necessarily equate an agriculturally rich/wealthy one.  If that was the case then you could add The Eyrie, Storms End and Moat Calin to your list of strategically insignificant land.  They showed Karhold and Last Hearth because they wanted to demonstrate several things, such as Sansa openly challenging Jon, and Jon making the decision to spare the kids. 

In-universe, the meeting in that room didn't start with the scene open and it didn't finish with the scene close. They'll have discussed many other things that weren't necessary to the progress of show, like, I imagine, who's going to adopt Ramsey's dogs, what should we do with all these Bolton banners, and who gets the Dreadfort now. Clearly, the writers feel none of points are of any great importance going forward, so they're settled off screen and you're left to think about what happened yourself.

Lord Whoever got the Dreadfort. It's irrelevant. 
A siege is a completely different circumstance when you have dragons...
Remember Harrenhal? The greatest castle is Westeros that was literally melted by dragon fire? Dragons change the game completely.I see this argument a lot and I agree, *if they had something to fight for*. At this point everyone and their mother knows Stannis is dead, why in shit would the garrison stay and defend a castle for a lord that no longer exists? I'd get the hell out of dodge, as would all the servants, cooks, castellans, and everyone else. 

Stannis men wouldn't give a shit about defending the castle and the Lannisters, while they know how important it is, wouldn't waste 100 men's lives on a siege they would lose to dragonfire or otherwise, they don't have the men, the supplies, or the inclinationYes a small force in a castle can hold off a much larger force. But you would be holding it for someone. Stannis and his army is dead, no one would be coming to relive you. The soldiers had two choices, abandon the castle of prepare for a long siege where they will die at the end. They also would have had to spend close to a year since their king died just sitting on their hands. Most likely if they heard of Stannis' death, they just abandoned the castle. Exactly. No one in their right mind could defend the show writers' decision of leaving Dragonstone barren for Daenerys to claim. Coincidentally, in the books, which are much better written and much less laden with plot holes, the Lannisters DO move to take Dragonstone immediately as the opportunity presents itself. Because even book Cersei, dumb as she is, understands the value of said castle. 

The worst part is that the show characters actually know that. "Where will they land?" asked Cersei. "Dragonstone" replied Jaime with confidence. Now Cersei may be uneducated in the ways of war, but Jaime definitely understands the value of Dragonstone and he knew it for months. Even if he has never advised the crown to retake it after Stannis departed, the very first thing he should have done, upon hearing that Daenerys has departed with her fleet, was to reinforce said castle. But he didn't. Why? D&D would rather write a cool cliche scene for Daenerys than try to have their characters make sense, that's why.I think you missed the "three dragons" part. Yes, 100 men can hold a siege. 100 men will also wet themselves when if see three dragons.Siege defense tactics go out the window when there are dragons dudeIf I was Jaime I would have sent a small army to hold dragonstone against Dany.Boats exist > How would you run away? It's a fucking island.

The show has previously demonstrated that, like most people, soldiers are capable of travelling by boat.Right? Like Brienne's character getting stagnant, that's a good point.

But how did arya hide frey's body? Threw it in a river, buried it, fed it to wolves... who cares? How did Jorah get to the citadel? This isn't a plot hole, it's an incentive to watch the next frickin episode...I think there is a lot of debate about just how different the book ending will be, when they appear lol, to the show. I'm not even sure the major show characters will be major book characters by the time the series wraps up. GRRM talked about stages of characters, and lordy knows there were lots of new ones in the two most recent books, right? So, although we may learn something from the show about D&D's chosen few, they may not be as important in the books. I'm not sure the spoilers will be as large as hoped/feared.

But hell, its all speculation at this point. Even from a purely show perspective, I want to know what happens to the show characters. I'm on Team Night King lol, I want the Children to win the GoT, so I'm bound to be disappointed;) But I'll be watching anyway.Ha I know exactly what you mean. PJ is the man, he loves the story and tries to still love the show, but he's not gonna let any of the really stupid shit slide without some savage salty mockery. When you read the comments, you see the intense relief lol, like, finally someone is saying stuff that needs to be said. Edit: And its not fucking nitpicking lol, he's pointing out some serious giant sloppy plot holes in this first episode review. 

I loved the Hound, Beric and Thoros sequence, it was such a surprise, so good and moving, I was totally willing to overlook the frozen soil issue. But I'm glad PJ pointed it out, because GRRM himself  avoided making that mistake in a previous story. PJ takes details seriously because GRRM tries to take them seriously. While making mistakes too of course lol.People can love the show while criticizing the plot, but that's not what OP is. This is 2200 words of histrionics about how Old Nan isn't getting enough screen time.

>This used to be my favourite show. And I'm dreading the end of it, because I know it will just be more of the above.

I mean, are you kidding me? I know this story matters to people, but I promise you it's more fun if you *laugh* at Ramsay's dogs disappearing instead writing several essays about how the show has ruined your life since it ran out of material to adapt.
I feel like people often criticize the worst parts of the show too much and act like they are the be-all and end-all. This is coming from someone who also loves complaining about minute details.

From the latest episodes the only real complains I've seen/had which art worth discussing are the lack of forces on Dragonstone and the fact that we didn't see Arya set any of this up so she comes across as OP. 

It becomes pointless when you are asking about details which ultimately don't matter - since chances are you'd be making the show worse by adding this stuff in. It's like people don't understand pacing is a thing in tv shows because GRRM is so god-damn bad at it in the books.How does she make the mincemeat then? Take the bodies to a butcher?So we end up with a never-ending show that has to continually recast main characters, because in-demand actors don't typically want to spend a decade-plus inhabiting the same role, especially when the intense shooting schedule of the show reduces their chances for cashing in on their fame with other projects.  They also have to find the money to hire dozens of additional actors to play roles that show-only viewers (the vast majority of their audience, mind you) will never be able to remember and differentiate.  

Even after doing all of that, they will still eventually run out of book material, because there's no way they don't eventually pass GRRM before ADOS is published.  Also, they would likely lose a substantial portion of their audience, because they didn't sign up for years of random meandering through the Riverlands "searching for my sister, a girl of ~~three-~~ ~~four-~~ ~~five-~~ six-and-ten...ok, six-and-**twenty**."

Yes, I don't think it counts as a plot hole, but I did find it weird. I'm not sure it needed to be acknowledged in the show, but it would have been nice. I think the problem is with when they would show this. Daenerys would have known this when they picked Varys up, at the latest, if not before. They probably should have mentioned it last season (but I think people would forget) or just had a scene where Varys, or Tyrion, or somebody, tells her that Dragonstone is empty for the taking.Probably, I expect it too, but I doubt that there will be a good explanation for Randyll sitting around for a few weeks or months and doing pretty much nothing.Yeah, I mean, I don't think you're wrong. But I think a lot of people have more or less accepted it for what it is, at least I have. It's still one of the best shows on TV right now, even with the fall in writing.That's a reasonable argument. I count myself lucky to have started reading once all the current books were out so I didn't have as much of an issue with the format of those two, and knowing what I was in for helped me just enjoy the change of pace of the books I think.

Obviously things were going to dip in quality once the showrunners started working off outlines rather than being able to use GRRM's fantastic writing for help, but I think a lot of the issues people have with decisions made on the show revolve around how seemingly obvious some of the mistakes can appear to be and how easily rectified they could be, especially considering it's the biggest show on TV.
On the one hand I'm grateful this is being adapted and has become the phenomenon it has, on the other I'm often disappointed to find how easy I find issues the second I scratch the surface. thanks for the response!  I just think the "I'm gonna kill the queen" was so dumb and unnecessary.  She could have said literally anything else, and they would have been like "ok, neat."  If she didn't want to fight them, why say that at all?  I don't get why their reaction to that specific question would matter.

I do understand that it helped bring her back to earth after her massacre at the twins, but I feel like it could have been handled a lot better.Yes but after their lord is killed and not coming back and they aren't getting paid you think they would stay for more than a year rather than go home to their families?

Jaimie says it's been abandoned since Stannis died (or left). They show furniture toppled and braziers overturned. Cersei and Jaime talk about how their forces are stretched and running out of food as it is and first goal should be to secure new food stores not go after Dany.

If one is looking for an explanation there is plenty to be had.Just joking with you. No worries. I guess I was assuming that if Euron reached Blackwater Bay first, he would have headed straight towards Essos to intercept Dany.  If Dany reached there first, she would have blockaded the mouth from Dragonstone (or at least have been seen by Euron and mentioned to Cersei).

/u/BossMan764 mentioned a third option, where Euron intentionally hides from Dany until they take Dragonstone o that he can attack her there.  Seems like terrible tactics to me, but probably the only way to have the plot make sense at this point.Then why didn't he or the crown set up some force at Dragon stone when they have to go right by it....twice None of those examples are anything like Cersei's plan. Not even remotely.

A better analogy would be the Capitol Building being destroyed by Melania Trump during the State of the Union, who then declared herself President. If you think people are just sitting back doing nothing in that scenario, well, I don't know what else to say.

...Not really?  You've lived in your house for a bunch of years.  Do you know what type of rock your house is built on?oh i see. i don't remember the show quite as well, but didn't she have some ethical questions when she was ordered to kill the actress on braavos? i think they're trying to follow the character on the book but maybe they're doing a slight poor job at that.And if Arya wasn't able to perfectly imitate Walder then what? They are going to instantly figure out it's a face changer and capture her? No, they'd just assume their drunk mean lord was being weird.  He's cantankerous enough that most people would just be glad he didn't talk to them at all. She waltzed out of the room because the only survivors were weak serving women who were in shock. > problems with inconsistent characterizations

But then if a character, namely Dany, is continuing down the same ideological path of going to war for a few episodes she's boring and lacks depth? The nit-pick I've seen on this and other boards is so contradicting it makes me laugh. The structure criticism betrays the OP ignorance about how story and plots are formed for film and tv. OP can't understand why the show would cut out certain details but add in new details--like Jon going to Crasters Keep in S4. 

The answer is simple story telling devices. Stories need to have a beginning, a middle and an end. TV shows typically either have the basic story blocks be the episode (like an episode of Star Trek) or a season (like the Wire). GoT chooses the later for the most part. Each main character needs a story for each season. That's why episodes 8-10 have a lot of plot climax. Jon can't spend all of S4 resting for the battle so they give him something to do. 

Similarly, they can't just push the ending of ADWD into Mid S6 to spend the time developing other characters. Imagine of S5 ended with ep 5 or 6, and then just left the rest for next season. That season would have been garbage. 

The same goes for why the show cuts out or barely discusses some minor characters like Illyrio or Qaithe, but then builds up minor charcters like Greyworm, Tommen, Bron. It's because they don't have time to do all the characters justice. So they focus on a couple key characters. 

OP wants to destroy the main characters plot lines for a bunch of minor details and minor characters. That is a terrible opinion. Considering how far he delves into details, I imagine he has a lot of nitpicky things that would irritate people to point out and depend on immense book knowledge.

Among all that I'm sure he notices plenty of major flaws.There's the way no one cares about kinslaying anymore. There's the Hound suddenly seeing with perfect clarity in fires anymore on his first try where seasoned pros can't. There's no one caring Jon quit the Night's Watch. There's the Wildlings not caring about Jon coming back from the dead. There's no one garrisoning Dragonstone despite a very recent attack on King's Landing being carried out from there. There's the Dornish supporting Ellaria killing Doran when they had just stopped her at his command from killing a Lannister 2 episodes prior.

TBH I would be here too damn long listing all of it. Just some random examples off the top of my head:

* "The north remembers" but none of the northern lords react to Sansa being abused by Ramsay

* The wildlings are superstitious and fear the undead but no one bats an eye at Jon being resurrected

* Davos is Stannis' fiercest ally but waits a whole seasons to truly ask Melisandre wtf happened to him

* The Red Wedding was a scandal but Arya's newest "Frey wedding" seems to be just "some trouble at the twins" ed sheeran had to take care of

* Sansa trying to undermine Bolton's claim to the north by...marrying him? and therefore legitimizing his claim even further

Those are all things the show itself established to be important: guest right, alliances, marriage pacts, betrayals, magic mattering and being a source of wonder - and yet the outcomes of those storylines make no sense even in the show.That's not what I said, but alright. Look closer?I'd love it if that was true. I still hope so. But, in the show, it seems as if all his schemes are done and he's now waiting around for Sansa to love him. I guess we'll see >the problem is they took him there in the first place

This reminds me of the 10,000+ strong Vale army crossing the Neck without anyone noticing till they showed up at Winterfell. And Sansa not telling Jon beforehand and letting half of his army die because...she felt unappreciated?To Caitlyn, probably? > CW's "The Vampire Diaries"

wait now I'm wondering

http://vampirediaries.wikia.com/wiki/The_Vampire_Diaries_(Awards_and_Nominations)

Hm, maybe the british accents give a +5 bonus to GoT's prestige stat.  It's literally the only explanation.> designed to fit on a shirt in the Zazzle shop

Game of Witty Catchphrases: You go viral or you die"My brother once told me nothing someone says before the word 'but' really counts" -Benjen Stark, Season 1

I thought it was a pretty cool throwback, and good brother sister banter.Our Ned would never have said that.Yup, but when he connects random cooks in Dorne to the scheming of Qyburn, because they spun sugar to look like skulls instead of heads, proving the cooks knew Kings Landing would send Gregor Cleganes skull instead of head, it can get a bit nutty. Illustrates how deep he looks into things, though!

I would pay good money to watch GRRM's reactions to some of Prestons videos.And Season 6 laid the groundwork for that exact conflict! The books expand it a lot more, but Sansa always resented Jon, picking up on Catelyn's dislike. She swallowed the manners and prejudice of highborn society, including all of the prejudice toward bastards. Plus, she has a legitimate claim to Winterfell and the North. Plus, there was that big dramatic moment where she became a player back in Season 4. All the pieces were in place for a power clash between her and Jon, with her feeling entitled to rule over the North. It could lead her to trusting Littlefinger, or better, outwitting him and using him for her own ends. 

In any case, that whole thing was wasted for some touchy-feely familial moments with a little gentle-slap fight mixed in.There are some issues with 9, but compared to the rest of the season before it, it was good. Pretty much any part with Sansa is going to be cringey though. I think the positives outweigh the negatives in this instance.5 is probably the worst season. The first half of it was clunky, boring, and the Dorne plot was a disaster. But the final third of the season was really good. Season 6 is average or better. Better than S2 and S3, at least. Probably not as good as 1 or 4. 

Even 5 is pretty good considering it had to slash AFFC/ADWD to the bones. 

People view S1-3 with too much nostalgia. Qarth story plot is almost as bad as Dorne was. Jon's S2 was pretty lame. Rob's arc was confusing, the war was never explained very well. They hit the character moments well, but the plot was a disaster. If you didn't have books to fill the gaps, then it wasn't clear at all.  5 is probably the worst season. The first half of it was clunky, boring, and the Dorne plot was a disaster. But the final third of the season was really good. Season 6 is average or better. Better than S2 and S3, at least. Probably not as good as 1 or 4. 

Even 5 is pretty good considering it had to slash AFFC/ADWD to the bones. 

People view S1-3 with too much nostalgia. Qarth story plot is almost as bad as Dorne was. Jon's S2 was pretty lame. Rob's arc was confusing, the war was never explained very well. They hit the character moments well, but the plot was a disaster. If you didn't have books to fill the gaps, then it wasn't clear at all.  Yeah, it's because there wasn't really any source material. Season 5 was when they strayed the most from the books, so you could see it getting worse. Season 6 was just a free for all, so I consider it one of the weakest, if not the weakest of them all, especially if you don't count episodes 9 & 10. While they had nothing to go on, Sapochnik did them brilliantly."but she is a super bad ass assassin now! She spent all that time training, you know when she was either blind and begging or washing bodies. It's just like Rocky. As I said, there's dragonglass deposits all over Westeros. If there wasn't what was Jon talking about when he said we need to start mining it? The fact that there's some on dragonstone is not special in that regard. The amount is the only thing that's special.Well Stannis said he would have his Castellan help the nights watch out. Then within months he died and Dragonstone was abandoned. And then Jon rebelled against the King. 

The nights watch and Jon particularly probably couldn't set up camp on dragonstone without Cersei killing them all. 

So they'd just try to mine what little they could from other sources. 

But if it's really a motherload, it's worth the risk. If this revelation is the culmination of sam's oldtown visit I'm gonna be so disappointed.I agree that it would be tough either way, but they realistically could have shown a clip from that conversation on the "previously on" part at the beginning. Then Jon could have just said during his speech "We need dragonglass. Stannis said there was some at Dragonstone, so we'll start there."Just because Dragonstone is a good launch pad for an invasion of Westeros wouldn't justify making the investment of men and resources to garrison it. It's *relatively close* to the Blackwater, but it still took Stannis' fleet days to arrive. It isn't *that* close. And without supply lines from Essos or Westeros any army would quickly succumb to the circumstances of a siege. 

It's a near impregnable castle, aye. But other than that it has 0 importance. You need a fleet to blockade the blackwater. Dragonstone itself doesn't do that. The Lannisters' fleet is primarily in the west at lannisport and their army is strewn out across Westeros from the Westerlands to the Crownlands and up through the Riverlands. They've lost their allies in the south and are faced with a war on two fronts with an army that's strewn out and Withered down after years of war. And winter is coming, here actually. 

The men it would take to man the fortress in and of itself is grounds to not make the effort. The logistics of keeping them supplied further complicates the prospect of garrisoning the castle. The Lannisters have Casterly Rock as their fortress and it overlooks Lannisport one of the larger cities in Westeros. Besides that they have Kings Landing and the Red Keep. Besides the Lannisters the other major houses already have their strongholds they don't need another one and they don't need to take it just to deny it to their enemies. 

Their strategy for dealing with Stannis while he was in the castle was to just let him have the damned thing. Stannis knew it. He could out live them all, but for what? The Lannisters knew he wasn't a threat at that point. The fortress itself is next to worthless. 

It was important to Aegon because it was the only land his house had on the eve of the invasion. There is a reason the Targaryans would essentially abandon it as their capital and build the Red Keep. It's a symbolic place for the Targs, but other than that it wasn't strategically essential for anything. The dreadfort isnt some random house sitting on a hill. Its the Dreadfort. Its one of the most significant castles in the north, if not the most significant behind winterfell, and just ignoring it leaves a massive hole in the story. 

Most likely they did just give it to another family but to not even mention it (which would take 10 seconds) is just poor writing. > he soldiers had two choices, abandon the castle of prepare for a long siege where they will die at the end.

or swear fealty to the new lord. there should at least have been a maester and steward maintaining the castle.> Most likely if they heard of Stannis' death, they just abandoned the castle.

Why leave a perfectly good fortress? whoever stannis left in charge would still be in charge, the castle wouldn't be abandoned.It is a very different situation in the show now though. The Lannisters are struggling with food and troops. They can't afford to just throw away soldiers to slow down Daenerys. And that's exactly what sending men to Dragonstone would've been - an attempt at slowing her down. And it wouldn't have slowed her down by much at all. So The Lannisters would've just wasted the lives of like a hundred soldiers and valuable food resources.It can easily be defended. They had enemies in westeros while dany was off in essos, and once she actually invaded, there was no point wasting ships and men on dragonstone. 10 men would surrender, 100 men would surrender, 1000 men would surrender, 10,000 men would surrender. Why? Because three dragons could easily turn dragonstone into a stone oven and roast them all alive. The troops would be wasted, have no place to retreat to and the lannister army would loose precious soldiers and ships fighting a battle they could never hope to win. Storm's end yielded to dragons, Torrhen Stark with all the armies of the north yielded to dragons. No army north of dorne since the field of fire and no castle north of dorne since harrenhall have stood against dragons without dragons of their own. Plus, the dornish only won by hiding from and not engaging the dragonsIf the Lannisters have to capitulate Dragonstone, because they see no way in hell how to defend against dragons, they can capitulate wholesale. 

Either you have a defense against Daenerys, in this case it makes sense to use your best stronghold that protects King's Landing against an invasion from the sea; or you have no defense against dragons, in this case, why fight at all? If you are already that convinced that you have lost anyway, just give up. 

Their current strategy, fight without using all your assets and gifting immensely importing bases to your enemy, is just insanely stupid.Harrenhall was destroyed by Balerion but he was much much larger than Drogon is now, the castle would still offer protection against them.So they should just abandon King's Landing?  exactly, you correctly predict where your enemy is going to land and do nothing to prevent it? Gendry finally touches down onto land at Dragonstone, sees that armada and has to start up rowing away again. Poor lad cant catch a break. You mean teleportation the lord of the crossing? just toss him in the river? no guards, servants or anything. yeahEvery part of the Arya/Frey murder-romp would make a writer who was even remotely concerned about immersion (i.e. not making your audience go "wait, what?" or "...how did...?") shelve the whole thing. OP listed a few problems, when really they could have listed every second of every scene. And in aggregate critics of the story-line *have done exactly that*. Every aspect of it has been torn to shreds by one critic or another. The fact that you can provide *an* answer to a question doesn't mean it is a sufficient answer or that the question was without merit.

The show is rushed *and* lazy. They are very clearly shoving things in as fast as possible with little to no context just to get things to the next plot point. And they are doing so poorly because they also want to indulge themselves and an inattentive general audience with oversimplified themes and characters. In other words "well I don't have time to eat the most balanced breakfast possible, so I feel justified in getting the most unhealthy thing on the menu at the drive-thru."We spent an entire season+ watching Arya train to become a Faceless Man. The poisons, the faces, the knife work, he treatment of bodies, even a blind spell she had to live and train through. 

We've see quite enough of Arya's background to know she can pull it off. It's actually pretty easy... she spends a few days as a servant observing Walder, learning names and places at the Twins... goes on to murder Walder, steal his face, poison a kask of wine and distribute it to a gathered crowd she's gathered to feast. 

I don't need the 2-3 episodes and 3-6 scenes it'd take to spell that leg work out. 

I made a more detailed response on why Dragonstone wasn't a big deal and why it makes sense and why it doesn't need to be spelled out. The TLDR is Stannis abandoned it wholesale and no one else had the desire to come behind him and garrison what is an otherwise strategically insignificant fortress. I'd also say OP is right on with Sansa/Jon interactions. Those are my three complaints about this episode. I still enjoy it, but I agree with OP that it could be *SO* much better, and the mistakes feel very obvious and easily corrected, so it's a bit frustrating.Use your imagination... She took the bodies somewhere and chopped them up. In a castle there are plenty of places she could do this with nobody really noticing. Think about it. She prepares something. Kills one of them. Takes his face. Then goes to the other one and says "Hey, come with me, I need to show you something!" and they go and then she kills him. Then she just cuts them up and she can probably pass that meat off as any meat.

It is not that outlandish. No TV show that I know of spoon-feeds the audience as much as you seem to be wanting.Brienne's storyline was one of my favourites if not the favourite in AFFC, it was really good and I think it's adaptable to TVWell the other part of it is the presentation to the viewers. That's something that they also have to think about. If she had just blurted out a random mission to them and to us then everybody would be confused as to what she's doing. That's just the nature of a TV show, you need to have something for the viewers too, the key is to not make something so specifically engineered for the viewers that it doesn't seem realistic in the universe anymore. I don't think that this specific situation was that extreme and as such I gave an explanation as to why she could've given that answer and I think that makes sense. 

The way those soldiers respond to such a proposition shows several things to Arya - are they truly good people or were they just pretending, just how loyal are they to their queen and so on. And their response showed Arya what she was hoping to see, they're not an irreversibly indoctrinated bunch and as such they probably won't cause trouble for her.Alright. We cool.I don't think attacking her on Dragonstone is a good idea /u/carpiediem. Dragonstone was made to withstand a siege. The idea I was trying to convey is wait and hit her ships in the open when leaving Dragonstone. Take out any auxiliary forces she send from Dragonstone in the sea. Handicap her that way and you will strand her at Dragonstone forcing Dany to attack you with the dragons. 

Or if you want to avoid the dragons in general during a sea battle, wait until she sends a force around Dorne and south of Westeros to attack from the west and hit that fleet of hers the.  Why set up a small garrison force on Dragonstone when you can bait Dany in there, destroy her fleet with Euron's fleet, and leave all her forces stranded on Dragonstone with minimal access to ships to access the main land. Not to mention as Jamie had pointed out, the Lannisters' are already spread extremely thin with no allies to help them.  Sending a small garrison to slow down Dany from eventually taking Dragonstone almost seems wasteful of troops and resources.

Not to mention that the Greyjoy way of life is a pirate's life.  Make 5 ships and send them out to go capture more.  Just because Euron asked for 1000 ships doesn't mean he was required to make all of those ships or even have all of those ships at that exact moment we see him on screen.Look at literally any riot in history.

People do no riot after bomb blasts. They don't riot after a chunk of city is wiped out.

Your analogy doesn't even work. If someone, you don't know who, blows up the capitol and it kills most of the government, and all the local protestors that hate Melania, no one is going to do anything of she's the last plausible person to be named the new President.

And again, WE HAVEN'T EVEN SEEN OUTSIDE THE RED KEEP.

Riots start from long simmering social tension. They have never started after a damn bomb blast or disater.Dragonglass is valuable though, even just as decoration/ornamentation. And Dragonstone is right in his backyard, where he's been smuggling all his life. He would've known what they sold, or at least heard of it or something.The ground beneath my house is clay. Any American homeowner can probably tell you what kind of rock it is built on because it affects our day to day lives - if it is possible to add a basement, if it is Earthquake safe, how deep our foundation will have to be, etc. I suspect that the earth will affect people like Davos more. A smuggler needs to know if it is possible to dig tunnels somewhere. A lord needs to know if it is possible to dig wells for defense.GneissWhich couple of episodes are you thinking about?

Frankly they dropped the ball on Dany in season 5 way more than they did in 6. Season 5 was a time when she could've developed meaningful feelings about Mereen vs Westeros, peace vs war, what it means to be a conqueror vs a reigning Queen ecc...Thank god they simplified the meereeneese knot by scrapping the pale mare, the graces and the whole Shavepate ordeal. That was a good choice. 

But like..they didn't do much with what they kept. They didn't even put Daario vs Hizdahr in the forefront to contextualize her longing for peace and a home VS the path of war. She's supposed to be terribly conflicted, and since they gave her little to work with in terms of internal conflict, she comes across as underdeveloped and yeah..boring. It's not the lack of action in her scenes that makes her boring, it's the lack of conflict. Just take a look at the sheer amount of empty motivational speeches she gives per season....To add, a lot of your criticisms are valid plot points. But I think the even far *bigger* gaffe is characterization. 

Sansa's entire presence in this episode is Olly-level terrible. Plot-wise, D&D want a Jon-Sansa conflict. Character-wise, their attempts are pure cringe.
Sansa and Jon argue over how to deal with the Karstarks and Umbers. It's a fucking disagreement over how to deal with non-personal enemies you never really met. It's a disagreement on the best logical path forward.

There's no personal investment, no emotional investment, and thus, no reason to make this a relationship dividing conflict. Sure, you might disagree, but disagreeing =/= deep conflict. You don't see Davos become a bitter personal rival of Jon cause Jon doesn't like Davos's hypothetical battle plan before Bastardbowl. Now, our heroine comes across as more petty and selfish than Cersei. Nor, is her "resentment" against Jon for becoming KitK believable. All of S6 established Jon and Sansa's relationship as close and trusting. You have [this great scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IpHppN9RVoI) where there's a pause and we're not sure how these two characters are going to interact. Then, they establish the relationship as unconditional support and love where Jon listens and respects Sansa sometimes not-deserving-of-respect opinons throughout the season. She's not an ambitious or envious person and, frankly, she doesn't give a fuck about the KitK title.

 A "He stole my claim" conflict could work for *DANY* because of her past arcs focused on the throne, ambition, and a reconquering of home, but not on Sansa whose arc has never been about power, only about home. D&D have frankly made Sansa a Dany-lite. Sansa, Dany, and Cersei even have the same overly fierce blank facial expressions of staring intensely into the distance. It seems like, for female rulers and potentially female characters, D&D only have one size fits all characterization. For Sansa, this is especially bad as she's unambitious. The reason I harp so deeply onto this Sansa-Jon problem is because I wanted to examine just one charcterization in detail, and this one was egregiously bad. 

Nor is this episode the only gaffe. In Season 6, there were so many examples of Sansa becoming out of character, and I don't blame the actress. From her not telling Jon Snow about Littlefinger (Need a weak rationalization here) to saying "You're not listening to me." when everyone had the entire season and then giving the advice ["I don't know!"](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iGMkFeUkQyU), everything is so forced. 

Some solutions for creating a good Jon-Sansa conflict:

Solution #1: Sansa is the Stark most like Cat, so have her be like Cat. Sansa and Jon were the most distant siblings. He was her *half* brother. So add that sense of distance and unsure trust back into their relationship from the beginning. This also makes a lot of sense, considering her arcs in KL and with Littlefinger was all about 1) learning not to be so naive and trusting anymore and 2) becoming just like her mother.

Solution #2: Have Littlefinger aggressively request for a marriage with Sansa in return for the Vale during S6 before BtB. This gives her a real reason to hide Littlefinger's potential help and hesitate to ask for help. Also, now she's beholden Littlefinger and so can realistically be forced to act against the interests of someone she loves (Jon) as hers are now different.

Soltion #3: Have Jon marry Sansa off to Littlefinger to retain Vale support in S7. Now we have a real personal conflict. Jon's allegations lie to politically protecting the North from the Night King. Sansa cares about that too, but it's her body and life that's being sold away and she's been through terrible marriages so many times before. On a personal level, she's right in that this is a terrible unfair thing to do. On another personal level, Jon's right in that he has a greater duty to the realm. They both have reasons to disagree heavily and personally in this issue and turn it into a real conflict.

Heck, you could combine all three by having an tepid reunion between Sansa and Jon where Sansa reminds Jon of Cat. Then, Littlefinger requests Sansa's hand in marriage in exchange for the Vale troops, which Sansa then abides. Then, Littlefinger surprisingly declines the marriage, "showing he genuinely cares about her happiness and well-being", earning back her trust. Then, BOOM. Jon weds Sansa to LF through political reasons egged on indirectly by LF and suddenly Jon's now the bad guy, through the machinations of LF. Personally, I think that's a much better character arc for a Sansa-Jon conflict that not only makes sense, but is investment worthy.>  "The north remembers" but none of the northern lords react to Sansa being abused by Ramsay
 

Sansa was not abused in any abnormal sense. Yeah, she was raped but I doubt that she screamed it out to everybody. From outside eyes, she went willingly into the marriage and then decided to ursurp her husband with a bastard brother.


>  The wildlings are superstitious and fear the undead but no one bats an eye at Jon being resurrected


Well, they got that line that they consider him a god. And them following Jon into battle was never in question in S6 (while they were runing around trying to get followers). That implies them being impressed / intimidated by him despite Tormund trying to make light of it.


>   Davos is Stannis' fiercest ally but waits a whole seasons to truly ask Melisandre wtf happened to him


He asked about Shireen, not Stannis, and only after finding the burned toy.

 
>   The Red Wedding was a scandal but Arya's newest "Frey wedding" seems to be just "some trouble at the twins" ed sheeran had to take care of
> 

We have no idea how the timelines align between the events, and news might not be quite clear. In any case, they are facing a direct invasion with Dragons, so it might be them being flippant towards a much less direct thread.

>   Sansa trying to undermine Bolton's claim to the north by...marrying him? and therefore legitimizing his claim even further

Its Sansa. She is dumb as a rock and thinks she is a "player"  who "learned from the best" because she was toyed with by Cersei and Littlefinger.Back when he actually was a nervous teenage boy? Yeah, you are probably right lol, and he would have meant it. But grown up Littlefinger that we've seen only through the show? That is so implausible, even Sansa--especially Sansa--wouldn't buy it for a second.It's a soap opera for teenage girls cashing in on the success of Twilight but I have found the utter shlock of TVD more addictive than recent series of Game of Thrones, maybe because the plot moves forward significantly every episode.In season 1 Benjen says "You know my brother once told me, that nothing someone says before the word 'but' really counts."That's not her character during Season 6 though, as shown during their reunion and the entire season. Season 6 laid the logical groundwork, but the emotional groundwork is far more important and was in the other direction.People also forget how reviled the Robb/Talisa romance plotline was. Season 2 was when I realized that I needed to seriously temper my expectations with the show. I was eagerly anticipating Dany's Qarth plotline because I love the House of the Undying stuff from the books. It's when some of the really fantastic elements scale up. I was so disappointed. I'm used to it now, but I despised Littlefinger's characterization at first. I remember how much people bitched about how quickly Drogo melted his gold belt! Nothing's changed except the fandom is much bigger. I think people who weren't around on the boards in the beginning don't appreciate how much shit the early seasons had flung at them.Season 5 also ruined Stannis and his plotline. The show made  him kill his daughter for shock valueThere's literally three Dorne scenes in the first half of Season 5....Very much agree! Seriously. At what point in her "training" did she actually learn to do anything close to this? Since when does taking someone's face mean taking their entire body? We never saw that with Jaqen.

And where is her practice? She at some point apparently learned to do it and instead of practicing it, she goes straight to the Lord of one of the most prestigious houses in Westeros and has zero issues? > The nights watch and Jon particularly probably couldn't set up camp on dragonstone without Cersei killing them all. 

From what we seen Cersei didn't care about Dragonstone, the whole castle was free for takingI have a feeling that Sam is gonna be drawn to Valeria. Something to do with valerian steel/greyscale. It won't be, this was just to establish that there was useful information at the citadel. The oldtown visit will cumulate in a much bigger reveal of some sort or alternatively something to do with EuronSo, it's better to present significant information in a 4 second snippit of a "previously on" than to make Sam find the info and relay it (proving his value to both Jon and the viewership)?

   edit: Than not thenNo it isn't poor writing, it's irrelevant to the story they're telling and they figured not enough people cared about some random bit of fictional trivia to bother specifying who got it, so because it's a TV show not a 1000 page novel they just put it aside for now. I have no idea how you aren't getting this.They would probably book it too, back to their family's or to another house. Staying in Dragonstone means deathThat's a good point but I think that's only an option if you know who the attacking force is. For example if it was rebellion era Robert then you know he will be reasonable. If it was Ramsey Bolton then you know surrendering would equal death. If it's an unknown force of foreigners and dragons I'd probably run. A perfectly good castle, but on a rock surrounded by salt-water with probably no food, no ruler, a mainland covered in the enemy forces, and no hope of reinforcements or resupply.  Its a great place to die peacefully of starvation.Because eventually, someone will come to take it. In the books Cersei does take it and Stannis isn't even dead. I wouldn't want to be caught holding a castle for a dead traitor. I'd loot the place and leave. Are they supposed to hold the castle for a dead king with no heir?If they can't defend Dragonstone, then they can't defend King's Landing. Your logic says they should abandon there too?Yeah, that's exactly it about Done. How did the Dornish beat Aegon?

**By abandoning their castles and cities when the dragons flew in**.     Sending troops to Dragonstone would've been so costly for them and it would've resulted badly either way. If they had sent in a small force, they would've gotten destroyed so quickly and the morale would drop immediately if a 100 men see a fucking army and 3 dragons approaching. At that point it's just a waste of troops. And if the Lannisters had sent a bigger force then Daenerys could just ignore Dragonstone if she sees that it's too much trouble to take it. And then King's Landing is more vulnerable and a lot of resources have been wasted. Either way it's a risky move that the Lannisters can't afford right now.And there were THREE dragons coming, an armada behind them, and the person they were holding the castle for is dead.

It would be stupid if they *did* try and resist. 

Quit arguing for the sake of it.Tell that to the people who are in that castle, seing creatures that are the stuff of legend and have been extinct for a century and a half. If's like telling the romans seing elephants for the first time at the river trevia "Don't worry guys, a river crossing is a strategic position". Do you imagine that young men who have never been outside of their home county and  are seing battle for the first time would be as calm and tactically minded?Using Harrenhal as a historical lesson, they probably should yea. The situation being described in Dragon Stone and King's Landing would be very different though, as its a city of half a million. My main was however that a skeleton crew of 100 could hold that fort in normal circumstances probably, but dragons change that.What if they get there late and Dany is already there? You just sent a small army to die horribly when you need every man you can get If you don't like the answers don't ask the stupid questions.I was really hoping they wouldn't push the fake ass Sansa Jon conflict, but it seems that we will need to lose screen time to it. there's plenty of places she could drag a full sized man, the son of the lord. I'm not saying it's impossible to come up with a scenario, it's just so unlikely that they need to show it, and it needs to be plausible! Anyway I don't care because I don't watch it.There are some great moments in Brienne's journey, but there are also rather long stretches that I don't think would play well on TV, not least because the compelling part of her story is often her own thoughts and feelings.  It would be against her character to vocalize those things for TV, and it would be nearly impossible to effectively convey all (or even most) of them non-vocally.

I've read the series 3 times and listened to it on audiobook once. I love these books, and I can't wait to read more, but GRRM has a problem with getting so caught up examining the roots that he seems to forget that he has an entire forest to deal with.  I'm OK with that to some extent, because a side-effect is occasionally getting magical moments that he wouldn't have found if he was too focused on the endgame, but it's also probably a big part of why he has trouble finishing the books.  TV shows can't afford to wander aimlessly, especially when they're as expensive to produce as GoT.I really doubt Davos was running around digging tunnels into Dragonstone.  He's a sailor and he smuggles things by blocksde running.People were complaining at the end of last season about how Dany is just a warlord now. >Heck, you could combine all three by having an tepid reunion between Sansa and Jon where Sansa reminds Jon of Cat. Then, Littlefinger requests Sansa's hand in marriage in exchange for the Vale troops, which Sansa then abides. Then, Littlefinger surprisingly declines the marriage, "showing he genuinely cares about her happiness and well-being", earning back her trust. Then, BOOM. Jon weds Sansa to LF through political reasons egged on indirectly by LF and suddenly Jon's now the bad guy, through the machinations of LF. Personally, I think that's a much better character arc for a Sansa-Jon conflict that not only makes sense, but is investment worthy.

This is the kind of stuff that you could potentially even find in the books... I want to watch this version of the show!Littlefinger sees Caitlyn in Sansa, she brings out the "little boy" that was in love with her. Even then, Sansa completely shuts him down so why are you even complaining. Sansa has matured and Littlefinger is blinded by his love and desire for rule in the North. George has been foreshadowing that for ages. It's going to happen in TWOW. Stannis's entire arc is that he's a false Azor Ahai. What does Azor Ahai do? Sacrifices his most beloved. What would a false Azor Ahai do? Sacrifice his most beloved for nothing since he isn't actually Azor Ahai. 

 Sorry I meant (but fucked up) to say The first half of season 5 was boring and clunky. Also, the Dorne story throughout was a disaster. But Dorne is a small part of the end of the season. There is what? like 15 minutes of Dorne from S5E8-10. Sure, he could have taken it. But if anyone notices, Cersei would kill them all. In this case, yes. Sam's strength is his mind, and to forget a detail that significant is so out of character that many people found it jarring. I would have rather Sam had suggested it than Jon, but that would have to have been introduced earlier in the show (as soon as Sam discovered the importance of dragon glass). There's no perfect way of handling it, but a simple flashback would have been smoother. I understand it is a tv show and they cant put everything in, but the dreadfort isnt some random piece of trivia. It is one of the major castles in thr north and pretty major defensive stronghold both in defending against the northern white walkrrs and against the lannisters if they did march from the south. It is also the most important castle in the east so would be vital should the iron fleet attack the eastern coast in terms of coordinating a defence.

Clearly it is important, and i dont think it would have been impossible to literally put in 10 seconds to mention even just mention it when they gave Dany 5 minutes to literally just walk around and had time for fucking ed sheeran to say kings landing is the worst place in the world.

Game of thrones may be my favorite show ever but it isnt perfect. Get off your high horse and realise that they may have made a mistakeUsually a force led by Diego Simeone would be defensive stalwarts...A maester and steward would be there at the bare minimum. And the force stannis left behind are R'hollor supporters who view dany as the messiah, I would have accepted if they at least where there and gifted her the castle.

Also in the event that the legitimate beratheon lineage is gone then an illigitmate heir can take the throne, Edric Storm was a recognised bastard of Roberts and lived at Storms end, he could demand fealty.King's landing is on the land. No position between moat cailin and the dornish mountains are particularly good for fighting dragons, but at least it is somewhat easier to supply and potentially escape from. If they are going to try though, wasting resources on dragonstone will do no good. Dany might also hesitate to burn people, and Tyrion knows about the wildfire under the ctiy, so there the citizens are effectively hostagesIf there is no point in enforcing your most valuable asset against a sea based invasion of your capital (the kind they are expecting for obvious reasons), then there is no point in fighting at all. Stannis' attack on King's Landing (the finale of season 2) showed how dangerous it was to have a foe controlling the Blackwater Bay and having him in possesion of an invasion capable port directly in front of the capital.

You are *massively* underestimating how immensely valuable castles are in siege warfare. Look at the thin, winding ramp, that goes up to Dragonstone. Fleet, cavalry and siege engines are completely worthless, when taking Dragonstone. Trying to storm with ground troops, that are under crossbowfire from all sides will incredibly costly in manpower and time, sieging will be even more costly in time. Destroying Dragonstone with dragonfire will rob Dany of the immensely valuable castle she needs for an attack on King's Landing. Dany is in a lose-lose-lose position with a fortified and occupied Dragonstone in Lannister hands. Whereas now she has a operational base she can stage sea onvasions from, has lost absolutely no ressources and has easy access to King's Landing.

King's Landing is more vulnerable with an completely unspent enemy force on a functionig sea base directly in the bay and less time to prepare than it would be with a highly damaged enemy force in the bay or a enemy somewhere more remote but more time to prepare even if 100 soldiers are missing.

Even if it would have been totally impossible to occupy Dragonstone during the last years for whatever reason, why not at least make it unusable? Take it or deny it, but don't gift it to your enemy in pristine condition.

Look, I think we both know that not in universe reasons are responsible for how the Dragonstone scene played out. I think Benioff and Weiss wanted some emoting from Clarke and a trailer fodder line. And they probably didn't want the hassle of showing the storm of Dragonstone. All this could have been more easily achieved, if there was an occupying force, that Stannis left behind (like in the books), who gift the castle to Dany. Getting the castle as a neat little present makes more sense for Stannis remnants, because they don't care about the problems the Lannisters will get when Dany's forces have a sea base directly in front of the capital. Since Stannis' forces have a high quota of R'hllor worshippers, which see Dany as a messiah figure, these would make even more sense. And then you can still have your "Dany goes silently through her birthplace while all her advisors follow her awkwardly" scene. And nobody needs to wonder, why nobody, absolutely nobody, not even the Velaryons, who live ~~on the same island~~ right next to the island, went "Sweet, free castle!" and took it.So why are they fighting at all then? If they are just giving up incredibly strategically important castles for nothing because there's no defence against dragons, why do they not just strike a deal to give up the throne to keep Casterly Rock or at least their lives? Dragonstone would be far easier to defend against dragons and army than King's Landing.It takes at least 3 months to sail from mereen, it takes less than a week from kings landing. There is no way forces would arrive late.What and that answer is valid? The show has established that people can travel over impossible  distances in short time, though they have yet to use a ship to do so. That isn't the point - it is part of his job to know about these things. You don't want to find out that it is possible to tunnel into your castle when a besieging army actually does it.PUT ME IN COACHI completely disagree, so no need to discuss this further with me, there are vast megaposts that share your view. Cheers;)I'm not complaining that it happened as much as he spends most of 4 seasons saying he will never do it, twenty fucking goodmen happens so he does it, and then he dies one episode later to multiple dumb plot contrievances. Have him die in the snowstorm that doesn't stop after he does it, or have him die against the Boltons in battle later, but having that as the episode ending twist then having Deux ex massive army hiding in winterfell followed by Brienne coming out of nowhere to finish him just one episode after it happened seemed like awful writingYes, but there's probably only 25 minutes of Dorne in general, so that's quite a lot. Completely agree with you. This needs to addressed in the show.Well when I watched it, I thought to myself. Hmmmm, I wonder what happened with the Dreadfort. Then I thought to myself, we've got six more episodes in which we might find out. It's only the first episode, did we want even more exposition crammed in?

Just because a piece of information is missing, doesn't mean we'll never get it, and it also doesn't mean it was intentional. When we watched Theon getting captured, did we complain after that episode because we didn't yet know who Ramsay was?

We collectively need to stop over dissecting each episode as if it were a complete work, because until we've seen the whole thing, we don't know better than the writers, no matter what we might think. It doesn't have any impact on the story. Including this bit adds nothing to the show, so they didn't include it. If it holds any relevance in the future then they will tell us, yeah they could've included it but not including it doesn't detract anything from the story, this complaint is entirely pedantic. I think this has crossed the point into needlessly picky.

1. I think it would have taken more time to explain why there are only 2 people at Dragonstone than to just explain that it was abandoned. I don't see how it really breaks immersion to think that no one wanted to stay behind when their king had died.

2. How do we know the people on Dragonstone knew Daenerys was coming? Seems to me like no one really knew it was coming. The only reason Jaime predicted it was because the Red Keep got news about it. I doubt that if they're first hearing the news, that Dragonstone knew first.

3. There is no Edric in the show. The only living bastard of Robert is Gendry, and Gendry is missing and has no proof of his lineage.

I don't know... they can resupply Dragonstone from King's Landing, and fortifying Dragonstone has the added effect of *keeping Daenerys and all her ships from having it*.

Not to mention that the Greyjoy fleet must sail directly by it on the way to King's Landing *and then back again*, meaning that the most obvious thing they should have done was garrison it ahead of Daenerys's arrival, because allowing them to land there puts King's Landing in the worst position possible. 

That's why it's such a big deal in the books. Honestly, not seeing this reality feels like defending the show for the sake off defending it, and that confuses me. ...The Velaryons don't live on the same island.  Dragonstone only has strategic value if you actually have the navy to defend the Blackwater Bay.  The Lannisters did not have that navy until this last episode.I couldn't have put this better myself, remove the 3 dragons from the equation and dany just has a regular army which would have to take place in a regular siege. It's also worth noting how much damage drogon took when in the pits of mareen, this shows that he can be harmed by a small force so he would probably be killed by trained soldiers with crossbows on the walls of dragonstone.Why would a few of Stannis' men have anything to do with Lannister held King's Landing?Ever hear of a tactical retreat?  When an army is beaten, is it strategically more sound to valiantly fight to the last man, or regroup and try fighting again when you're in a better position to win?  And how long does it take the news that Dany is sailing from Mereen to reach Kings Landing?"I'm wrong but have no argument leave me alone"I do agree that the middle part of his S5 arc was a bit rushed. He should have left Castle Black earlier. And they should have spent more time showing how bad the conditions at his camp were. Even something like montage used for Sam in S7, to show the passage of time. His sudden desperation was too quick. 

But having him die against the Boltons the next epsiode was good. I wouldn't call the Bolton army Deux Ex. They've been around a while. The only reason it was so lopsided was that half of stannis's army deserted. I mean that it didn't ruin the last third of S5. It was pure crap, but it didn't ruin Ep8-10. The show has established, ships are very much not dragonproof. Take a look at the wheather around KL and dragonstone throughout the episode. clear blue skies, perfect flying wheather, and also completely impossible for a naval battle against dragons. Say Euron takes dragonstone. Dany can scout ahead with her dragons, find his ships at anchor, burn the ships then burn the men on the island. There is a very good reason why we see in the trailer that the naval battle is at night, because it is an ambush. Euron could have all the ships in the world and he owuld still be fucked if Dany spotted him at a distance. Even modern motorized battleships are slower than flying dragons and can be seen for miles. On a clear day, Dany can simply fly over and turn the iron fleet to charcoal. She already defeated the Yunkish fleet which was presumably the same size and had far more advanced ship-mounted weapons. Euron needs to wait until either nighttime or a storm to gain the element of surprise and negate Dany's dragons, which is the only way he can hope to win a naval battle against her. Additionally, We do not know yet whether Euron means what he says. He told the ironborn he would marry Dany. It could be he is trying to play the sides against eachother, in which case taking dragonstone would be a bad idea for him as it would pre-emptively declare war between him and Dany. Meanwhile, the lannisters have neither the men nor ships to spare. Dragonstone would be a way to buy time at best, it is not capable of withstanding dragon attack. In short, it's in the Lannister army's best interest to stay on land and in the Greyjoy fleet's best interest not to engage Dany openly, but wait for a chance to ambushYeah, you're right, I corrected.Still doesn't solve the issues regarding denying it, the missing garrison from Stannis, that should have been there, other squatters, even if just pirates or that nobody saw the wide open gap in the capitals seaward defenses in years and thought to build another navy (which as Euron demonstrated can be done within a miniscule amount of time without wood in the show).

And making the enemy spend valuable ressources or denying them of the most valuable base to attack your capital has immense strategic value.I misunderstood. But it's a plot hole regardless.But they didn't fight at all... They aren't retreating, they literally left one of the most defensible and important castles on the continent completely undefended and abandoned. I politely let you know that we have utterly different perspectives on both Sansa and Littlefinger. Nothing to discuss, because it would involve tedious arguments that thousands before us have already had. For years. In massive amounts of threads. So, its not personal, its just me saying I'm not going to participate.> Still doesn't solve the issues regarding denying it,

I don't follow.  What issue is that?  Edit: Oh, you mean on your bit about destroying Dragonstone. Seriously?  Do you honestly think they could destroy Dragonstone and make it unusable?  That stance is nothing less than laughable.

>the missing garrison from Stannis, that should have been there, 

Stannis has been dead for a while.  His garrison will have abandoned the post long before Dany arrived.  Soldiers need paychecks.  If they aren't coming then they'll leave so they can put food on the table.  They wouldn't sit on a desolate rock in the middle of the sea without pay for very long.

>other squatters, even if just pirates

It's a pretty huge leap of logic to assume that there are pirates in the area, that the pirates are aware of Dragonstone's being unoccupied, and that pirates would want a stronghold with no natural resources they can plunder or a significant port for trading stolen goods.

>and thought to build another navy (which as Euron demonstrated can be done within a miniscule amount of time without wood in the show).

It hasn't been years since the Redwyne fleet abandoned Cersei.  That's a very recent development.

>And making the enemy spend valuable ressources or denying them of the most valuable base to attack your capital has immense strategic value.

Even if it is unequivocally a strategic mistake to leave Dragonstone unoccupied (which it isn't), why is it so farfetched to think that Cersei made a strategic mistake?  She was a poor strategist when she was half-sane, and now she's completely unhinged.  It makes sense for her to overlook Dragonstone's importance to Dany because it isn't immediately important to Cersei.No, it is not a plot hole.Not sure if I've said this to you or not already, but Dragonstone has no strategic value unless you actually have the navy to defend Blackwater bay.  The Lannisters don't have that navy.

Edit: Besides, an army doesn't have to begin the fight to recognize that they would lose the battle.  Retreating before any combat actually takes place is still a retreat.I could go on about how just making the military capable harbor less useful (at least as much, that Dany needs more time to get her invasion ready), which is no the same as pulverizing every single stone on the iseland (what I think you meant by impossible) or how entire fleets can pass Dragonstone without taking it (like Euron's at least once, maybe twice) or the Redwyne fleet on their way to Mereen, or how it makes no sense that Cersei (or anyone remotely in power), not trusting of Tyrells or their bannermen, wouldn't want a navy for herself. 

But I think the main difference between us two is, that you think Dragonstone has no use for Dany whatsoever in attacking King's Landing ("[it isn't] a strategic mistake to leave Dragonstone unoccupied") and I think having an enemy fleet and army at a Dragonstone in perfect condition is highly dangerous for the monbarch in King's Landing. Just watch S2E9 again, I think this episode says it all. Stannis almost took the city and only the arrival of two allied armies and some really clever ploys with wildfire and the royal navy (both of which are not available now) saved the city from being captured. The battle of the Blackwater wasn't that long ago, people still have it in their memories. They should rightfully get brown pants when thinking about a hostile conquering force in Dragonstone. Even if Cersei is beyond caricature stupid now, nobody else is pushing the issue, not even Jaime? It has strategic value because it is a fantastic base of operations for Dany. She can simply set up shop for an invasion right next door to King's Landing. Preventing her from doing that, even for a little while, is pretty important.this is a great theory. it would be hilarious if the way around the wall was just to walk around the Shadow Tower in the west. there seems to be a lot of land there based on quartermaester.info, despite that it's rocky.Awesome write up! I ,personally, really feel Bran's mark is going to play a BIG role. I feel like once the Nights King realizes Bran is at the wall he's going to head at them full force. I can totally envision a World War Z style zombie pile.

Either way, It'll be interesting to see what happens at East Watch when they arrive.if they didn't spell it out on the show and have 2 people talk about it, it probably didn't happen.I think he was legitimately just scared of all that fire. Seeing something in the flames doesn't explain his actions afterward. Reason #1: if he saw Joff die, or something else involving Sansa and/or Kings Landing, it doesn't explain why he'd get completely smashed and go hide in her room and yet still leave without her. He would know she'd be in trouble.

Reason #2 - Once he left he had no real destination in mind; he just wanted to get as far away as possible (and he changed his plans while on the road when he found Arya). He had the opportunity to talk to Thoros when facing Beric, so why wouldn't he tell Thoros he saw something? Why would he be so completely stunned seeing Beric brought back to life? (Assuming he saw something crazy in Blackwater flames and became a believer.) 

I understand wanting to connect dots (because damn, The Hound is a quick learner at flame reading, right?), but I don't think there is anything there.True. A man can hopeI don't really think he saw anything either, I just was thinking that maybe Sandor saw something, it freaked him out, then he left, but he didn't really know what he saw, and fought believing. It is green.  
  
But the openings aren't always consistent with canon. Some argue that a lion should be over Kings Landing instead of a stag   
    
I would like Jon's to be a White Wolf and a Black Field.  he's the white wolf and he has a brother of the black too.  It should be the reversed colors I agree.  The blackfyres reversed the targ colors... I wonder if they will ever explain why green.Opposite of winter is spring (green)? Maybe...Because green boys know nothing?> The Mountain is the closest thing she has to a friend. Yes that is right, an undead zombie is her closest companion.

Qyburn?Spot on. I think Jaime is sizing her up for another kingslayin'. But he won't show his hand because he knows how vicious she is.One of them is getting killed this season.both great actors> Why is Jaimie so nonchalant about this stuff?

Are people missing the obvious comparisons between Cersei and Aerys? Jaime killed Aerys because he was going to use Wildfyre to blow up the entire city--**which Cersei came outrageously close to doing**. Jaime is realizing that Cersei is mad.In AFFC, Jaime witnesses Cersei's descent into madness step-by-step. He starts going away from her. IIRC he goes to Riverrun to go away from her. They're just compressing that slow rolling realization in the showI didn't think Jaime is nonchalant. I think he's a bit afraid of Cersei now, and he's trying to reconcile Queen Cersei with the sister/lover he knew, and he probably can't. Someone in another thread characterized Cersei as:

"I'm here to burn my enemies and protect my children.
And I'm all out of children."> JaimiePlus, in the books we hear Jaime's inner monologue and see this transformation. We understand why he throws Cersei's plea for help into the fire. But that doesn't make for good TV. If Jaime had turned on her over the same "timeline" in the show, it would seem a very sudden and confusing. There isn't good build up to it. Having Jaime ride in and see the ruin of the Sept of Balor really SHOWS it. Cersei did what Jaime killed a KING to stop. 

Jaime can no longer rationalize away Cersei's behavior as stress of rule, or making the hard choices for family now that Tywin is gone. It forces him to confront his belief in her in the face of his new perspective. And it shows it to the show watchers. Jaime asks about Tommen in one last attempt to find one last quality of the woman he thought he loved, and Cersei failed that test. Later, Jaime looks on as Cersei flirts with Euron and negotiates terms for Jaime's replacement. With that the show has taken Jaime to the mental point the book is at. 

Also, I don't see alot of people talking about this point, and I think it is important: Jaime and Cersei threatened one another in the map room scene. But Jaime and Cersei both missed the other sibling's threat. When Cersei asks Jaime if he fears her, we all know that is Cersei's way of threatening someone. Jaime feels the threat, but doesn't really intellectually process it. For a split second, we get old Jaime, the Jaime that stood smiling in front of Ned Stark spoiling for a fight. Jaime cocks his head, hint of a smile on his face and asks if he should be. Cersei completely misses it because she isn't used to being in physical combat, in particular she isn't used to being truly and mortally threatened by Jaime. I think this is the final fracture of their relationship. Never really thought Cersei loved her kids except as extensions of herself as a narcissist would. Second once they are gone she knows she is next per Maggy the Frog  also note Jaime and Cersei position on the floor map - standing on the "neck'.  
Jaimes been long gone in the books. When cersei bangs Euron jaime is OUT. It sucks that there is so few episodes left.  I would love for d and d to use some of the dialogue in feast between jaime and cersei. I loved their back and forth attacks, with bashing him while jaime always replies with thank you sweet sister or something along those lines.  >are you frightened of me?

>should I be? 

To add to Cersei's **denial**, take note of how she assesses Daenerys' threat as being exclusively Unsullied and Dothraki, making no mention of her dragons. I suspect that the whole kingdom does not believe Daenerys has actual dragons, or that if she does that they're not fully fledged beasts. Look upon Tywin's reaction in [this scene](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MqdtZYrlb90), his experts briefed him that Dany's dragons are curiosities at best. The only thing I regret is that Tywin didn't live long enough for us to get to see Tywin's face if he'd stare down the eyes of a dragon.Your plot "holes" are all valid points and we’ve all gotten our hopes up to see everything untangle that’s been building up for 6 seasons. There’s not so much time left to tell these intricacies in the right pace for TV. Shame.>how she loves her children and it is her one redeeming character trait.

That and her cheekbones.[removed]>Why is Jaimie so nonchalant about this stuff?

Survival.

He's a bit scared. Scared of her and what she's becoming capable of. Scared of what he might do in reaction.

Notice, when she asked him if he was afraid of her, he didn't answer the question. He responded, "Should I be?"

When people's survival instincts kick in they can override a lot of "normal" character traits. When you mentioned that Cersei's closest friend is the Mountain it got me thinking... does it make ANY narrative sense that Cersei would turn down Euron? She literally has no one else. All we see of King's Landing now is just three people, it's absurd. None of them know how to properly run a city, let alone a kingdom, and have zero knowledge of taxation or economics or public relations or infrastructure... Not to mention there should be like thousands of people in the street demanding what the hell happened to the entire ruling class that just got blown to bits.

If I'm Euron I tell Cersei you have no other choice--you ally with me or you die. I go side with Olenna Tyrell or the Sand Sneks or Daenaerys and you die even faster. I think after Myrcella's death, Cersei resigned to the fact that Tommen would die in accordance with the prophecy. She considers his death inevitable and that's why it isn't a shock to her when he dies. 

After Myrcella's funeral Tommen came to talk to Cersei and make amends. Tommen was apologizing for his weakness and asking for guidance. He felt hopeful and motivated but Cersei clearly wasn't responding. The first thing Cersei asks is "Did they put her in the red or the gold dress?" proving that the only thing on her mind is the prophecy - gold will be their shrouds. Cersei said "I'm glad to see you" but she wasn't even looking at him when she said it. I think she was numb by the time Tommen died and continues to be.Also, while a lot of people have been pointing out that Jaime was standing just off of The Fingers while Cersei was standing on The Neck (in reference to Maggy's prophecy), I haven't seen a lot of people noticing that, a few minutes later in that scene, *Jaime* is the one standing on The Neck, while Cersei has moved off to the blank, unpainted part of the map to "drown her sorrows" in wine.Poor Jaime is now realizing why so many people sort of just gave Aerys what he wanted. People that far gone are scary and given that he has no mental health professionals around him to tell him otherwise, there's only so much he can do.

And what's worse, yes, two completely insane people-Qyburn and the Mountain-are Cersei's only other two outlets. That's horrifying since both are legitimately fine with her doing her thing because not only do they seem to actually like her, but also because it gets them what they want.Completely agree with you on your points about Cersei. I've been seeing some comments saying that Cersei claiming that Tommen betrayed her shows that she's truly gone mad or that it's a flip of characterization for somebody whose love for her children was her defining characteristic, but I think it's more of a symptom of denial and unwillingness to face the fact that she had a hand in her own child's suicide. When she talks about establishing a dynasty and Jaime says "What dynasty?!" it's like she's forgotten she has no children left to love and pass on a legacy, and she completely brushes over the fact ("A dynasty for ourselves, then") - not because she's cool with all her children being dead, but because she's still in denial about it. She doesn't want to realize that she finally has the one thing she wanted the most (the throne), but she lost everything else on the way there. 

As for Jaime, I don't think he appeared cool or nonchalant at all. Nikolaj Coster-Waldau had some amazing facial expressions in the Cersei scenes this episode, giving away his true feelings although overall he may seem outwardly cautious towards Cersei. Jaime's response to Cersei asking if he was afraid of her: "Should I be?" - He's definitely apprehensive and seeing Cersei in a different light. This is certainly not the same Jaime we saw in S6E1 when he's reunited with Cersei and tells her "we're going to take back what's ours" (paraphrasing). Before this episode I wasn't so sure, but now I'm pretty confident Jaime leaving Cersei is finally going to happen in the show. Perhaps if Cersei really marries Euron, that's what gives Jaime the final push (the show version of Cersei betraying Jaime?), showing him this is not the Cersei who he once loved. I really think that the show is setting up Jaime to be Cersei's Valonqar. He's beginning to lost his love for Cersei and Euron with his speech about murdering brothers maybe have made some triggers in Jaime. We all know he killed Aerys to prevent the whole city from burning and Cersei exploded The Great Sept of Baelor using the same resource Aerys had would be been to use. And we have that flashback (or vision; I think past season) with Jaime (with short hair) killing Aerys (the king) but back in time, he had long hair when he did it.I just want to tell you that your username is great. No, don't hurt the narrative. The Mountain is the closest thing she has to a friend, ruling monarch can only proclaim member of Kingsguard/Queensguard in trial by combat.
BWB gets north while Jon settles his business with Daenerys. Daenerys with Jon, Tyrion, The Hound, Davos and probably some other people come to King's Landing. Daenerys proclaims herself queen with a strong support of smallfolk, so Cersei resorts to trial by combat for the crown (Let the gods decide)
[It's the Mountain vs The Hound, gentlemen.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OFr74zI1LBM)
Or bothSpot on. Jaime is finally seeing what cersei really is. She 'says' she loves him and her kids - but only so long as they're useful and obedient. OP completely overlooks where she says tommen betrayed her. That's when she went to drink. She's upset her child betrayed her, not that he's dead. Jaime is clearly disturbed by the comment and her callous attitude about marrying someone else really wounds him. Anyone who says cersei loves anyone relies too much on words and not enough on actions I love you too, my sweet sister :)I'm not so sure he's in survival mode yet. He was very protective of Cersei during the Euron scene. I think when he asked "should I be?" was there start but he's not there yet. I think he was hoping he could help Cersei grieve during his meeting but now he's realizing she's beyond saving. That conversation could have been made as statements rather than questions. 

"You are afraid of me."

"I should be"People harp too much about things not making sense. Plenty of stuff in real life doesn't make sense, and these characters don't have the knowledge we the viewers have. We get far too worked up when less than brilliant characters make inefficient choices and we support our arguments with far too much intel that those characters just don't have.

(Yes, there are plenty of examples where characters just do things that make sense no matter what they're thinking. Not talking about those instances.)If we look at it from a realistic point of view, there must be people running King's Landing to some degree and the castle itself. Someone must be commanding the Kings Guard, all the servants. Its just that Cersei secludes herself from everyone as she's seeing traitors everywhere so we don't see them aswell.

And just like that she doesn't trust Euron. Maybe she does after he brings her Tyrion (at least that is what I think his *valuable gift* meant)  It doesn't make logical sense but that's Cersei's character. The wannabe lioness wants to make him jump through hoops. Cersei does things she thinks are clever, not things that actually are. She got all of Tywins brutality and none of his cunningI think you're partially right. I think that's how Cersei is trying to *convince* herself she feels, but isn't 100% there. I absolutely think that, especially after Myrcella died, she has pretty much "resigned" herself to the fact that Tommen would die. But I think his death hurt her more than she was expecting, more than Joffrey and Myrcella did. Joffrey was evil and, love him though she did, Cersei knew it. Now, at the time of Joffrey's death, Myrcella had already been shipped off to Dorne. I think Cersei had considered it a possibility she would never return alive from the moment she left, and certainly a stronger possibility after the death of her first son. So, Joffrey dead, Myrcella away in Dorne, and Cersei is left with Tommen, and I can only imagine she began to cling even tighter to him at that point. She was never a fan of Margery, and can see her pulling Tommen away, so she conspires to remove Margery from the picture. She succeeds in implicating Margery, but then she herself winds up in captivity, humiliated during her walk of atonement, and the more or less under house arrest. She finds out her daughter has died during all this, and isn't even permitted to go to her funeral. I think at this point Cersei is torn, with part of her wanting to just write off Tommen, seeing as the prophesy is well on its way to coming true in full, but I also think there was part of her that still thought she could protect Tommen, her last child. She basically blows up everyone left in King's Landing that she sees as a threat to her and Tommen, but she fails once again. Except this time, it's her own child that takes their life, her last child. Now there's no enemy to blame, only her own child, and herself, for pushing him to it. And that's what I think she's now struggling with the most, is that she blames herself, and *that's* what's caused the shock and denial. Sure, she was numbed some by the deaths of her first 2 children, but I think the last cut her deeper than even she ever would've expected, and now she's doing her best to contain it, but I do think we'll see Cersei well and truly lose it before the end. Alt-shift-X guy brought that up in his video for the trailer.Curious. What does Qyburn want? Carry out his... experiments? Hmm do you think he'll learn something about the undead (white walkers) while doing so?I like Qyburn though :c(In the books anyway) there are many instances of inner dialogue which show Cerseis love and desire for power far outweighed her love for her children, she used them as toolsPeople keep pointing out the line about Tommen betraying her as a sign of delusion, but the fact is Tommen did betray Cersei - not because of his suicide but because of his actions with the faith. When the high sparrow took her captive, Tommen did nothing to free her. She does her walk of shame, then he was ready to hand her back over to the sparrows for a trial that is certain to destroy her. 


Beyond that, Cersei began coping with the idea of Tommen's death when Myrcella died. Event by event the prophesy was being fulfilled, and there was nothing she could do to stop it. > her shows that she's truly gone mad or that it's a flip of characterization for somebody whose love for her children was her defining characteristic

I think she thinks her defining characteristic is her love for her children, but she saw her children as an extension of her right to rule. She used Tommen as a pawn, without mercy she cruely dismissed his feelings for his wife, abandoned him, abused him, manipulated him, when he asked for help about Margery she laughed to his face. She was kind to him when he did everything she said, as soon as he showed a will of his own she sought to undermine him in the most vicious way possible. 

She has always, consistently used her power to lash out and hurt people, be it Tyrion, Jamie, Her husband, Sansa, Margery, her father, she murdered someone when she was ten, she killed Roberts bastards, she killed Lady the direwolf because she likes making people suffer when she feels afraid.  When Cersei saw all the suffering in Kings Landing she sniffed and gagged her way through the peasants. She wanted them to suffer. She has the Septa raped and beaten to death. She let Joffrey abuse his brother, and Sansa and dozens of other people. 

Cersei has always been a narcissist. I think people are misreading her denials as just guilt, its not just guilt, its narcissism, she is projecting fault onto someone else. Shes explaining away her cruel indifference and murdering as Tommens own fault because (insert fucked up logic in there). She even called Lady Olenna a traitor and cunt even though Cersei masterminded the killing of her entire family, that is actually insane. Cersei does not think of people as people anymore, but as disposable pawns. 

>"we're going to take back what's ours"

She says they are going to start their own dynasty. Cersei is verbalising what she has always felt. She should be ruling. Jamie is the other half of that equation. 

People are giving her too much credit by assuming she is irrational because she is grieving. Cersei is pathologically elevated to be at a point of irrational anger close to all the time, ever since season one. Edit, shes nastier when she is drunk. She is drinking more then she is not these days, and its when she falls a bad state mentally It almost makes you wonder if Jaime is sort of trapped on Team Cersei right now. He seemingly doesn't realize it's her who set off the wildfire until he sees her in the throne room and by that point he can't run away. Maybe he even thinks he can still save her? 

But we see that hope gradually erode. Eventually there will be nothing left.That's the interesting thing that Jaime raised with Cersei... what are they fighting for now? Cersei is singularly obsessed with 'winning' now, while Jaime's only concern anymore is her, and he sees her changing into a tyrant. Maybe this leaves him open to being won over by another cause. I can't see him opposing Cersei and joining Tyrion, so maybe he would be tempted to fight a more noble war with Brienne in the North.Remember all that "Lopk at the foreshadowing. She's standing on the Neck and him the fingers!"

When she goes to get wine and say generally stupid bullshit and be an idiot, Jaime moves around and ends up standing on the Neck.

:)Lol thanks. I still don't think I'll ever watch a show that captured mystery or wonder as well as LOST.You don't confront crazy people like that. Its not how people think or react, and its not smart either.

Cersei knows he is afraid of her, but doesn't want that to be the case. So she asks him a blunt question to try and debunk her fears.

Jaime is afraid of her, but doesn't want that to be the case. So he asks an open question to try and debunk his.

They both know the reality but really do not want to, and are resolving that with questions.But that would be bad writing It's not like I'm complaining about trivial things like the characters traveling off-screen or Euron not having an eye-patch or there being a door in the back of the weirwood cave. I'd never had anything bad to say about the show, actually.

I am just venting about the overall story going in a different direction than I would like it to go concerning King's Landing, and I'm still bitter about the show killing off the Tyrells without there being any immediate repercussions. And would like to gauge other peoples' reactions because if they think it is absurd as I think it is than that means its less likely to occur in the books.And Euron is all too aware of it. And so his "gift" will be something he would've done anyway, for himself.Damn, forgot all about that channel during my spoiler-blackout attempts. There's been quite a few videos since last year, it seems. Guess I can forget about productivity this morning.I feel like he already knows plenty about the undead, considering he was able to create one of his own. The question is, is Robert Strong the same type of undead as the wights, or a different time of zombie altogether? Nothing wrong with that. Guy is just nuts. Good teammate, though.Yea I mean he straight up banned trial by combat specifically to mess her plans up. As someone who was raised by a narcissist, I find your observations spot on. A narcissistic mother loves her children, because they are extensions of herself -- no more than that. So of course she would see Tommen killing himself as a personally betrayal. I'm sure there is some grief, but I don't think her coldness is because of shock. It's because she genuinely believes Tommen betrayed her, and he's not her "golden child" like Joffrey was. I think that is his whole point in asking her about Tommen. Is the woman I loved really there? He got his answer, but you're right about him being trapped. If he wanted to leave where could he go? Nowhere that he wouldn't be either killed immediately or taken captive. I feel like the only thing that will make him cross that threshold and no longer support her is going to be something related to the white walkers.  The whole world will be uniting to combat this greatest threat, and she will be bonkerballs crazy, talking about how to use the white walkers to kill everyone else.  She might even suggest a parlay with the Night King or something, just... over the edge, obviously gone beyond redemption, literally putting the world in danger levels of crazy.  Then, and only then, will Jamie realize she needs to be killed.I don't understand what you're saying. Jaime moving on to the neck only strengthens the suggestion doesn't it?Lost got me into the whole internet chat group thing. haha I loved that show. And Kate, gods I loved Kate. Cersei likes that he is afraid. The 'love' in their love affair is entirely one sided. Remeber, she is older than him and resents the shit out of him for being the heir just because he's a boy. Her affair with him is more about cuckolding him than any love. She neutered him by preventing him from being tywins heir and having legitimate children. And she did the exact same to Robert by passing off Jaime's bastads as legit heirs.
Cersei has been a psychological train wreck her entire life.Agreed. I'd hope for burning Oldtown but that doesn't seem to be where the show is headedAlmost definitely different. He used so many "scientific" methods in creating him, and then there's the whole [creepy womb theory](http://nobodysuspectsthebutterfly.tumblr.com/post/54882994967/anonymous-asked-could-you-explain-the). The wights seem to be reanimated by ice magic, Beric and LSH by fire magic, Dany (and maybe our boy Starkgaryen?) by blood magic. Maybe you could count Greyscale as stone magic, too. Qyburn has probably just found a new way, which is waayyyy more gross than the rest.He isn't really. I think we can safely classify him as chaotic or true neutral. He just wants to learn more about life- and death- and sees Cersei as a great way to achieve that goal.Well, too, he'd be abandoning thousands of people to Cersei and her Nut Squad. A lot of people are going to think they can reason with the Night King, that's the scary thought.Yeah, that's what I'm pointing out.

Dedinitely seems like foreshadowing.Agreed on Oldtown, and it's a shame.

I'm thinking Highgarden (for the loot) and/or smashing Dany's fleet (for revenge).  Either way I don't buy for a second that he *actually* wants to win a crown with marriage.  He's going to pay the iron price for the iron throne.  He's just playing the Lannisters for his own ends.Interesting, I hadn't read that theory before! I definitely pictured Strong as more of a Frankenstein monster in the books, but the show didn't put quite as much emphasis on it. Also, doesn't he have blue eyes like the wights in the show? This made me think that both the wights and Strong were similar creatures, just created through a different process. They are both completely different than those resurrected by the Lord of Light though.Wut. He helped plan and execute the murder of hundreds of people. He's evil and it's not close.

This is classic to the alignment chart - everyone loves shifting people up for some reason, though usually it's thinking people are good when they're really just neutral but trying to make people think they're good.Again, nuts.Nah screw that, his first or second interaction with Jaime in the show, he admits to "experimenting" on people alive regularly (he starts to do it to wrongfully imprisoned girls for Cersei in Feast/Dance), it's why he's no longer a Maester. He is quite literally the Joseph Mengele of ASOIAF.Craster's Keep serves as the basis to that theory, doesn't it? There was a deal made: baby males for safety. How do we know he can't be?Well that might be the meat behind the revelation that the children created him.  He was human once.  He is acting of a conscious will.  maybe he can be reasoned with?  At the very least, maybe he can be made to fear, or have his humanity some how used against him?

Cersei though, she won't understand any of this.  She can no longer see the forest for the trees.Agreed wholeheartedly my friend. He thrives on chaos and this is just an opportunity to make more of it. The pragmatic side of him sees a chance to off Theon and Asha, tooWell, actually, GRRM recently said that Beric was a wight, like those the walkers use, but reanimated by fire, not by ice:

>"And poor Beric Dondarrion, who was set up as the foreshadowing of all this, every time he’s a little less Beric. His memories are fading, he’s got all these scars, he’s becoming more and more physically hideous, because he’s not a living human being anymore. His heart isn’t beating, his blood isn’t flowing in his veins, he’s a wight, but a wight animated by fire instead of by ice[...]"

*[(source)](http://time.com/4791258/game-of-thrones-george-r-r-martin-interview/)*

So definitely not COMPLETELY different.

And in the books, I'm really spooked by the idea of what *is* under that helmet. He doesn't eat, he doesn't speak, nobody's seen his face. For all we know, he could just not have a head at all, and they actually did send his skull to Dorne. We simply don't know, but it'll be cool once we do.That's why I think he's neutral. He probably would've created a vaccine to save millions from a disease just as easily as an incurable disease to kill millions of innocents, if it furthered his own goals.He'll be the Josef Mengele of ASOIAF if he deuces out of there and runs off to Sothoryos and generates a shitload of conspiracy theories down there.Yes, and Craster's Keep was such a lovely situation!Because what are they going to reason him with? What does the Night King want?Whoa, that's not what I was picturing at all. I thought Beric was literally brought back to life, with a heartbeat and all. I don't know why I thought that, because Lady Stoneheart definitely seems more wight-ish, but I was just blaming that on how long she had been dead before being resurrected (like in Pet Semetery). "He's equally likely to save millions as he is to murder millions" is not neutral. That's deep into evil. If you save someone from a car accident, it doesn't give you license for one free murder and you can call it morally even.That's the interesting question, because assuming *anything* about his intentions requires assuming motivations. Even if you think he "can't be reasoned with," that still requires ascribing a motivation to him (namely that what he wants is to destroy life as we know it).

Because the reality is that the Night's King *does* want something. He is an intelligent being, who is clearly motivated by some purpose. What is it? All we can say right now is that we don't really know. 

However, I think it'll be relevant that the former Stark kings styled themselves the "King of Winter." Given that the Night's King is a being of ice leading an army of other ice creatures and frozen zombies, that can't be just a coincidence. Was the mountain ever completely dead? He was poisoned and definitely got really close, but I always thought Qyburn just did some crazy mad science to bring him back from the brink-- like some intense steroids or something that fried most of his brain and mutated himRight? I was surprised when I read that too.

Unless Melly burns Shireen and resurrects Jon that way, it looks like Jon's not going to have to worry about feeling cold soon.No, I'm calling it true neutral. As in he doesn't fucking care about other people.True, true.

We can say that the guy just wants to take over the world and kill all of the humans, but that doesn't actually make much sense. He needs humans to create more White Walkers. Or does he not care about his other White Walkers?Looking back at those quotes, I guess that does seem like it could be the case. But the fact that he doesn't eat (and may be missing a head) makes it seem like he's either undead or being kept from dying by magic. And at that point, I suppose there isn't much of a difference. Doing harm to others and not caring isn't neutral, it's evil.

It's not: 

Cares about people - good, doesn't care about people - neutral, hates people - evil.

It's more like:

Cares about people and makes personal sacrifice to aid them - good, cares about people, but not putting their interests in front of your own - neutral, doesn't care about people - evil.

I'm sure you can come up with some character who hates everyone and doesn't care about them but commits no acts towards that and is perfectly neutral. But most people who actively don't care about people tend to end up evil because truly not caring about others means not stopping yourself from hurting them. Further, *most neutral people still care about other people*, they just aren't willing to sacrifice for them.

This is why most D&D heroes have "good" written down somewhere, but really they're just neutral. And why the stereotypical "chaotic neutral" character usually just tends to be evil without realizing it.I think calling it "True Neutral" is giving Qyburn too much credit. Experimenting on living people is... all kinds of fucked up. If I was DMing a D&D game and I had a TN player start doing stuff like that on the scale of Qyburn, I would force him to make an alignment change. He's a Lawful Evil. He has a code. He doesn't just murder and hate for no reason. But he commits crimes against nature and humanity. These are not neutral traits. Why would he want to kill all humans? What's in it for him? If he turns the entire world into a zombie army...what does that gain him?

I think a more likely option is that the Night's King has some more human motivations. I suspect that there is a higher-level "game of thrones" being played between magically-enabled factions, and the Night's King is seeing an opportunity to strike.I just realized I forgot about Qyburn mentioning how long it took for the beetles to clean his skull. (could be misdirection to appease Dorne, however)


But then he also used multiple female prisoners in his creation of Robert Strong, so whatever is left is more Frankenstein monster than wightI guess I see where you're coming from. 

[Alright, we'll call it a draw.](http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-hqV1o4HBf34/TymlVWfIH6I/AAAAAAAACjU/GxgWVr2DZXE/s1600/monty_python_2__limbless_black_knightC.jpg)But even then, what's there to gain? In fact, I think this episode and Cersei's predicament highlights this quite perfectly: What's there to gain when you have only yourself to think of? Jon and Sansa have each other and the North, Dany is just as concerned about other people and her own little group of friends as she is about her crown, Ellaria has her daughter, Yara and Theon want to keep each other safe, etc. Unless you're a total nut like Euron, you need that other personal connection to make victory mean something.

 It's kinda becoming a running thing with the show and I'm not fond of it. Sansa's reaction to White Walkers, giants, Jon's resurrection, Cersei's reaction to Tyrion, Varys and Dany's reaction to each other, Theon's reaction to dragons, etc etc all happen off screen. 

I understand that they might not have time for these things, but couldn't they show this instead of Tyrion trying to make jokes with Missandei and Greyworm?
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*How many times do we need to see someone angered at bad news or amazed/in awe the first time they see dragons?

Also dragons cost more.well given that the show just kinda forgot about Dragonstone after Stannis died, i think we can look forward to the Dreadfort being brought back up when someone decides they need a castle full of human skin.Sansa should get it as the widow of Lord Ramsay Bolton. Same as Donella Hornwood inheriting Hornwood. But i doubt that she would want it. So my best candidate is Lord Davos of House Seaworth, new Lord of the Dreadfort.I agree op, I want to know!the dreadfort is not in a location that would be of any particular strategic importance in the war against the 'others' or against an invasion by lanister forces from the south. - as such it probably isn't something that the show is ever going to address; 

they MIGHT talk about someone taking the Twins as that is strategically relevant for any defense/assault between the north and southern houses.Shhhh, Karstark Umber grumble grumble. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Davos or Sansa are good options.There's a difference between seeing the future and the past. 

In some ways, the lack of understanding around this is due to a major fault and plot hole created by the showrunners. 

At the conclusion of the last book the extent of Bran's powers is that he can see the past only through weirwoods and in such places where there is a weirwood *at the other end*.

Hence, he should not have been able to visit the Tower of Joy or even the Winterfell yard (unless of course there was weirwood in them which I doubt). 

I think they stretched Bran's powers in the show to make him the viewer of the ToJ events because what we know "firsthand" about the ToJ in the books was from Ned's mind and they never covered that in S1. 

I imagine this is why people get a bit confused about Bran's powers, because they're being used nonsensically in the show. 

Still though, he doesn't need the trees to use his greensight, that is not specifically linked to the trees, he had that gift before he plugged into Weirwood.net. 

So even though the show has messed with what Bran can see in the *past*, it is still logical that he can see the *future* without the trees. 

As such, that vision had to be the future to me. I do not agree with this theory, but I read on Twitter someone stating that they believe this is a vision of the future and that the landscape is green and turns frozen as the White Walkers and the Army of the Dead march across it.Yeah I noticed that as well, the Giant's eye was less wighty and more wargy. 

Seems Bran is somehow able to hyper green-see without the need for the trees. Who knows how this'll develop. Maybe it's something to do with the NK's mark on Bran, maybe it's something leading about Bran's fate.

Interesting that it's something Bloodraven didn't seem able to do. The eye of the giant is blue like the wights, not white like when Bran wargs Hodor. I mean, I could be wrong, of course. Just my take on it.

Bran ended the last season touching the Weirwood to watch Jon be born, right? When Bran left Bloodraven's cave, he was trapped in that vision. Maybe Bran was just in a weirwood.net trance since he last touched that tree, and only summoned himself back to his body to talk with Edd.

Once again, could totally be wrong.Bran will be the NK
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*You're correct, it's a distinct blue color.However many ships he has, it's obviously too many for the time period that passed and the resources at his disposal. And frankly, it's the stupidest plot point outside of Cersei actually being Queen of Westeros.Are you really going to trust Euron on his word that he has a thousand ships?Well in the books Kings Landing receives a report that the Iron Born attacked the Shield Islands with a fleet of one thousand ships while some of the council members suggest that it is an exaggeration and suggest that it must be 500 instead. The show and GRRM are terrible about exaggerating the numerical value of things. However, they shouldn't use a specific value, like "1000", if they simply mean "a lot". Euron could've just said build me a "fleet", "armada", etc...and it wouldn't be an issue. Not to mention the fact that the Iron Islands have no trees and that building even 500 ships would take years. At this point, the show is just making shit up without any regard to time, space, reality or common sense. They shoe-horned in Ed fookin' Sheeran for no reason too which completely ruined the suspension of disbelief all for the sake of trying to gain "cool points" with younger viewers. I wouldn't be surprised if they unmask Quaithe and it turns out to be J. Lo, or Beyonce :/1000 just means "a lot". They do that all the time in this series. Book-Euron was supposedly attacking the Reach with 1000 ships, but it was probably just an exaggeration. It's likely heavily exaggerated.  The Ironborn have a lot of ships, for sure, but I really doubt they have the millions of trees needed to build a thousand shipsnin the first place.IIRC that one was because of Maisie Williams being a huge fan of Ed Sheeran and she really wanted a scene with him or something. Not to mention having enough sailors to man that massive fleet.Maybe they build ships out of rocks and sheep? Intriguing design possibilities...That's a pretty silly reason to have him on the show. His appearance completely takes you out of the asoiaf world. All you can think is "what the fook is Ed Sheeran and his goofy haircut doing in Westeros?" I really hope there aren't going to be more celebrity cameos for the rest of the seasons.Rocks for ballast, wool for buoyancy! Sounds good! The show ships looked pretty impressive, I liked the carvings, that must have been the stone too. How the fuck don't they sink the ships though, even with masses of wool somewhere to counterbalance the awesome carved kraken? And wouldn't carving all that stone have taken freaking ages? Those Iron Islanders are some crazy hard workers, maybe they have ancient native methamphetamines on the Islands to keep them going?Hand him a paddle, we have one more on the boat with Gendry. Photoshop savy folk, do your thing!Edmure is locked up in Casterly RockEdmure leaves the besiegers and enters Riverrun. He delays until the last moment before surrendering in order to allow his uncle Brynden to escape. After Riverrun is handed over, Edmure is sent west with an armed escort to begin life as a hostage of House Lannister.

A Dance with Dragons

Jaime Lannister mentions to Tytos Blackwood that after Roslin gives birth she and the child will be sent to join Edmure at Casterly Rock.[17]

SOURCE: http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Edmure_Tully
Maybe he was taken back to King's Landing with Jaime and the Lannister army.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*In the show, though, Walder said Edmure was back in a cell, so he wasn't sent west like in the booksThat's what happened to him **in the books** u/thebenron wants to know what happened to him in the tv show.


It's unclear, but it may be the same in the show. 

Last season (Season 6, Episode 8), during the siege of Riverrun, Jamie approached Edmure and offered him comfortable rooms at Casterly Rock, and a chance to be reunited with his wife and to (finally) meet his young son. In return, he wanted Edmure to help end the siege. 

Edmure initially refuses the offer and insults Jamie in the process, but then relents when Jamie threatens to catapult Edmure's son into the castle. 

Since Edmure gave in, he *may* have been sent to Casterly Rock as Jamie originally offered. 

The fact that Walder Frey later says that Edmure is "back in a cell" does not, in my opinion, necessarily mean that he is in a cell at the Twins. Being held hostage at Casterly Rock may fulfill that. >The fact that Walder Frey later says that Edmure is "back in a cell" does not, in my opinion, necessarily mean that he is in a cell at the Twins. Being held hostage at Casterly Rock may fulfill that. 

Plus, he could be in his cell temporarily while Jamie is still at the Twins. And then get sent to casterly rock w/ Jamie's Lannister Army. I only realised when I watched the new episode how much I've forgotten show canon-wise. I need to rewatch at least from season 3 onwardsWe don't that Jaime didn't grab him and send him to Casterly Rock when he left, like he promised.Was he not sent to Casterly Rock?> Jaime offers to reunite him with his wife and son and have him live out his days in gentle imprisonment as a hostage at Casterly Rock.

But then this happens -

> Walder Frey later mentions that Edmure is back in a cell, although he has no plans to kill him as "killing [his] son by law would not be right." After the celebration, however, Walder is murdered by Edmure's niece Arya Stark.

So I don't think Jaime kept his word there.I'm pretty sure you're right. I expect we'll see him whenever we make it there. There is a decent amount.

In GOT Varys and Illyrio talk about how one hand died, why not another? Well this seems like sinister plotting against Ned and is referring to Jon Arryns death, we know now that this was actually referring to the ploy of having Jon Connington fake his death so that he wouldn't raise suspicion, and they were discussing doing something similar to Ned to help Aegon.

In ACOK Varys says this in reference to the comet that passes over

>"In the streets, they call it the Red Messenger," Varys said. "They say it comes as a herald before a king, to warn of *fire and blood* to follow." The eunuch rubbed his powdered hands together.

At this point Viserys is dead, and Dany obviously isn't a king. 

Dany is given this prophecy by Quaithe in ADWD before the Aegon reveal:

>"The glass candles are burning. Soon comes the pale mare, and after her the others. Kraken and dark flame, lion and griffin, the sun's son and the mummer's dragon. Trust none of them. Remember the Undying. Beware the perfumed seneschal."

Either the "Griffin" as in Young Griff refers to Aegon, or the Mummer's dragon does. Perhaps even the Sun's son as he is supposedly half-dornish. 

There are a few more I can't find off the top of my head, quotes like *a baby* was crushed by Gregor, but no one dared to look, etc etc.

Aegon is mentioned in the other books, but nothing really about the coming twist in ADWD. My guess is that this is something that George had in mind but had not fully fleshed out.

The most important foreshadowing is Dany's visions in the House of the Undying in ACOK. First, she sees a vision of Rhaegar, Elia and Aegon, where Rhaegar says that the boy is the prince that was promised and his song is the song of ice and fire. Second, she sees a vision of a crowd cheering as a cloth dragon sways on a pole.

Both visions are setting up opposition to Daenerys. If Aegon is the prince that was promised, what does that mean for Dany? If a crowd is cheering for Aegon, what will they do when Dany arrives in Westeros? Why is it referred to as a cloth dragon? Is it meant to imply being fake and manufactured?

There is also a quote from Quaithe in ADWD that tells Dany that many suitors and supporters are coming and to be cautious and not fully trust them. "The glass candles are burning. Soon comes the pale mare, and after her the others. Kraken and dark flame, lion and griffin, the sun's son and the mummer's dragon. Trust none of them. Remember the Undying. Beware the perfumed seneschal."The sun's son refers to Quentyn.Great catches for AGOT and ACOK. Very interesting.

I wonder if George actually had the idea of the Hand dying as a reference to Jon Connington. It could be that he left the conversation so ambiguous that it allowed him to go back and shape it to new ideas.

I think the quote from ACOK is definitely a foreshadowing of Aegon. Correct me if I am wrong, but that is when the Blackfyres crept into the story, right?Does it though? We know from his POV that Quentyn truly wanted the best for Dany, so why would Quaithe say to not trust him? Especially when marrying Quentyn could have butterfy'd way a lot of issues.

But Aegon is still a mystery.I believe you're correct, the mentions of the blackfyre rebellions started with the comparisons to TWOTFK IIRCAll the other epithets in that passage refer to different people, why would the sun's son and the mummer's dragon suddenly be the same person?

Also, Dany's entire goal is to become queen in her own right. Why *should* she trust this random guy claiming that there was some secret pact made 20 years ago that she has no way of confirming? How is she to know that Quentyn won't want to take her throne, especially as retribution for what happened to his aunt and cousins? Dany's a Targaryen, and Elia and the kids were killed as a result of the war caused by Rhaegar and Aerys--that alone could give someone motive to undermine her. Indeed, that's exactly what's happening. Doran doesn't want to support Dany because he thinks she's the rightful heir, it's because he wants to use her in his revenge against the Lannisters.
>We know from his POV that Quentyn truly wanted the best for Dany

*We* know Quentyn was a good egg. Dany doesn't.Right, but Quaithe seems to be somewhat all knowing. Why would she give Dany essentially bad advice?Why does she warn against Tyrion then? He hasn't shown that he wants to harm Dany.

All Quaithe's saying is to be wary, which is very good advice, and again--Doran's motives aren't in Dany's best interests, they're in *his* best interests. Just like Aegon's (or Varys's, rather) motives aren't in Dany's best interests, just like Victarion's motives are not in her best interests. Also, Dany marrying Quentyn distracts from the real problem: the Others.Tyrion is dangerous to Dany, as we saw with Aegon. Tyrion is playing for Tyrion. And while those goals might end up helping someone else, Tyrion by the end of ADWD isn't a guy you want on your team. And Doran is playing for Doran. Dorne also brings virtually no advantages for Dany. They're the least-populated and least-armed, everyone else in the realm hates them, and they're several hundred miles south of King's Landing.

Going back, I ask you: why would Aegon magically get two descriptions when everyone else only gets one? Why would he first be referred to as Elia's son, when everywhere else in the series he's first and foremost referred to as Rhaegar's? Why would he be referred to as "*the* sun('s son)" when Elia was never a ruling princess?

I'm sorry, but it just doesn't make sense for that to refer to Aegon, and makes *every* bit of sense for it to refer to Quentyn.longshot, but he might give up his eternal life to bring Jon back once again.I kinda suspect that Thoros sacrificed his other siblings. So was owed 7 lives and just accidentally resurrected his friend out of grief.

Cat might be part of some later plan but it's impossible to say.It could be for a greater purpose, one that we may never understand.

In the books, is Beric's purpose to transfer life to Lady Stoneheart?

In the show, is Beric's purpose to fight the Others or even be a metaphor for Jon Snow following his resurrection (which I wish they would explore more).

It could also be more about rekindling faith in Thoros, so the resurrection of Beric was simply happenstance.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Children can survive greyscale like Shireen while it's always fatal in adults. It's unknown how she came to be "cured" but If the cure is related to obsidian, it would stem from magic and not physical touch since the book is describing how that didn't work. Greyscale is a magical disease and won't have a normal cure. It'll probably involve shoving a piece into the chest or limb which will cause it to balance each other out or something along those lines.

The Valyrians used dragonglass as a jewel on par with gold. So they put them on everything. If the cure is in these books, I don't get why this knowledge wasn't spread. Probably, because no one really opens these old tomes when seeking a greyscale cure... that could be the only logical reason...
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Sam's looking at books on dragonglass and the Long Night. It would be like looking at books on agate and the Flood to find a cure for tuberculosis.With all the war recently, it's gotten to a stage where every man and woman will be need to defend the wall etc.

Throwing the Umber and Karstarks out of their homes does nothing but cause more violenceJob needs a united North, and every man he can get. Say he declares that the castles be stripped from their families. Even though Ned Umber and Alys Karstark are there, there presumably have other family and forces still in their castles. Job then has to waste time, men, and resources taking those two castles back. 

The wars of the past don't matter. The game of thrones doesn't matter. All that matters is the War for the Living. I think *asking* them to swear was the best touch here. He could have demanded it of them, he could have listened to Sansa, heck, he could have executed them. But he asks. Jon is aware that people will dislike his actions no matter what he chooses, but does not stray from the path of holding each person accountable to their own actions and no further.Jon made the right call no doubt. If the war was over and no white walkers were coming then maybe he could get away with killing them. I really hope they don't turn their backs on Jon. I sometimes feel like D&D make this world so much darker then it is in the books just because. The dumb part is that Jon himself stole Winterfell from Sansa, while preaching about how he wouldn't take castles from families they've belonged to for centuries. Jon *Snow* doesn't have a claim on Winterfell, and he usurped his sister who did.There is a better way to reward those who stayed faithful than just taking away the castles of the children of your enemies. Jon could certainly reapportion lands from the umbers and carstarks, and or put soom carstark and umber lands in the hands of loyals stark knights which keeps an eye on the traitors children.Pssst... Jon... Let Sansa know that the Dreadfort is empty now and you can bestow that on a loyal person...

Or not, because now that Ramsey and Roose are dead, there is no longer a Dreadfort and that portion of the North is now missing.

Jon, Sansa, and The showrunners forgot about the dreadfort.Another consideration is that these are these are the closest castles to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea. So giving these castles back to the Karstarks and Umbers may not be that great of a mercy, since these are the castles that are likely to be decimated first in the White Walker invasion. Jon absolutely made the right move IMHO BUT-

You have to know who you're dealing with.

If you're dealing with two kids who didn't agree with what their families did and want only to serve loyally and such, of course, pardon them and reward them with their family holdings.

But if you're dealing with someone who can't wait to bury their axe all up in your  skull when you turn your back, mayhaps you need to crush the dragonspawn before they grow up to breath fire and avenge their family.  ETC.

In this case it seemed to me, both of them were gratefully stunned to be pardoned.  Jon Stargaryen THE WHITE WOLF ftmfw!I could use more of book Jon's sass. To me, it just seems like every character on the show, in a certain position, becomes one of a few stereotypes the show has. For the women it's even worse. Sansa's acting in that scene reminded me of Cersei so much. Maybe they intended it that way, to show she has changed. We already have a Cersei Lannister though, and I'm not saying she is becoming evil like Cersei, but the juxtaposition of having 2 inherently different characters is important. 

/rant I'm not very good at articulating what I'd like to say about the show. 

My thing is, they are arguing about who gets the Last Hearth and Karhold, when legitimate heirs exist for them, when they have the Dreadfort now sitting lordless. Should have married them to new family that helped him to reward them and keep the existing houses there. Would have been the best of both worlds from what sansa and he wanted.Also "not blaming sons for the sins of their fathers" is a worldview probably informed by living as a bastard son all his life.the poor stupid lad finally feels welcome in his home. is finally being acknowledged as his father's son with pride not shame. and is finally sitting at the family table next to his sister who always berated him. and then she berates him in front of every body. i love both these characters, especially for their consistently making the same mistakes over and over (just like real folks!)Jon preserving the swamp of elitism and entitlement. Disgusting. Drain the swamp. I agree, but does his decision paint him into a corner w.r.t. new owners for the Dreadfort?A great comment I saw elsewhere online pointed out that of course Jon will take the "don't punish the child for the parents faults" after he was treated so poorly by Catelyn growing up, despite doing nothing to deserve it. His stance on this is very much in line with his character.In the book, they more or less give away the homes. They changed this on tv. 

I think they likely did this to contrast/emphasize Jon's persona/style of ruling/the "new way v Sansa's/the "traditional"/revenge-based/bloodthirsty way. 

This way of operating/ruling is a spectrum:
- with Tywin and Varys (somewhat questionable, because we still don't know his motives) being at the most extreme end of logic without emotion,
- and most of the TV Starks (ex: Robb, Robb's dumb wife, Assassin Arya) and TV Ygritte, being at the most extreme end of emotion without logic. 

Examples of emotionally driven TV characters 
TV Robb
- For example, TV Robb is a political and strategic moron who always goes small picture.
- He chooses love with a rando instead of keeping oath with a house, which would have helped his family/the big picture.
- After marriage, when there's a huge war and many lives at stake, he chooses to have sex with his wife and put off strategizing for 1 day (stupid). 
- At the wedding, he is stupidly trusting (trust no one), and brings his wife. As Walter said, "if you wanted to hide [your wife], you shouldn't have brought her."

TV Arya
- TV Arya is very black and white, and she wants to kill the Hound, without considering the grey area he had to operate in, or any good he has done for her, Sansa, or others).
- She generally makes very emotional decisions. 

TV Ygritte
- TV Ygritte is also very emotionally driven. This is seen or represented as "independence" among the free people, since they are a hardy and bottom-like type of folk. But really, it's just emotion.
- She is attracted to and likes Jon, so she pursues him. She is angry when he absconds for home, so she shoots him with arrows. She still loves him, so when she sees him at the fight, she hesitates to shoot him and is subsequently shot. 
- Since she was a minor character on TV, these decisions haven't had a huge consequence on the macro-level or seen as bad. But she is an example of an emotionally-driven character. 

I suppose for rulership/survival in this cruel GOT world, ideal rulership somewhere is in the middle but leaning towards logic tempered with some emotion. 

In this way, Jon and Danny are becoming somewhat similar.
- They are both becoming big picture/macro goal-oriented, they balance logic with emotion/a touch of humanity, and they both think about culpability (ex: WHO is culpable), which is important to the formation of [fair] laws.
- I think this is what the aforementioned "Let the Karstarks keep their ancestral homes" scene is conveying. 

On the other hand, Sansa and Cersei make emotional decisions but sometimes try to sprinkle it with micro-level, tit-for-tat logic.
- For example, Sansa not telling Jon about Littlefinger and the Vale's army was an emotional/illogical decision.
- Sansa (1) arguing with the King of the North publicity, (2) not understanding she should speak to him privately, and (3) not being able to see anyone else's logic but her own is all highly emotional. 

For anyone who can't see this, think of it this way: if Sansa was Queen of the North, and she said in that meeting the Karstarks etc would lose their castles for lack of loyalty, but Jon repeatedly interrupted and said she was wrong, what would she do/say?
- She would do as she feels, without listening to others.
- She would stick to her decision, berate Jon after, and still think she's always right--she wants what she doesn't give to others, but counsels
them to listen to her. 

A better ruler would understand Jon's angle that you cannot publicly undermine the ruler/figurehead (even Tywin knew this when dealing with Joffrey; everything was behind the scenes, but he was not publicly humiliated in giant meetings/events).
- Like Cersei, Sansa would not make an effective ruler. Both believe they should be rulers or have a right to something (whether as Ruler of 7 Kingdoms or just Ruler of Winterfell/the North), without really deserving, earning, or knowing what to do with it. There's no bigger picture or goal for either besides ruling and other petty squabbles.

TAKEAWAY: send Sansa to the Citadel with the decree she cannot return, until she memorizes GOT's version of Machiavelli's The Prince. I still think there's controversy here, I do agree with Jon at the end but I don't think Sansa was all wrong. 

For instance, the 2 castles closest to the real threat are now ruled by children, yes they might be the young wolf/Lyanna Mormont reborn and somehow do everything right, listening to their maesters and stewards and using that information to form a conclusion. 

But they are still kids, we've seen what can happen if you let them go too wild (Robb's marriage) and there's no loyalty/intelligence guaranteed by the advisors. What stops Eddard Umber for getting manipulated by a Bolton advisor who seeks revenge and doesn't care about anything else? 

What I think Jon should've done is giving the castles to the kids, but also give them trustworthy advisors. My thought was that the Karstarks and Umbers, being the farthest northern families, will pretty much be meat shields when the wall falls anyway.Absolutely, but he should have taxed them higher for a couple of generations and given that gold to the loyal families. It also shows how different he is from Arya who indiscriminately slaughtered all of the Freys regardless of their participation in the Red Wedding1.  Creating more enemies only reduces the number of soldiers you have to fight the White Walkers

2.  Sansa seems to accuse Jon of making Rob's mistakes, but one of Rob's biggest mistakes was not being able to show mercy to the Karstarks for their transgressions.  It cost him half his army.Excellent move on Jon's part. At this point, minimize disruption and focus on the task at hand. Revenge against kin (the Umbers and Karstarks are kin) is counter to the objective. Bring them back under into the fold, under probation. 



Sansa's desire for revenge is short sighted. In truth, she has learned the wrong lessons from Cersei and Little Finger. True loyalty is not about threats, it is about mutual trust based on mutual interest. In the books, the Manderlys are the most loyal of the loyal because: 

> "When we were sore beset and friendless, hounded from our homes and in peril of our lives, the wolves took us in and nourished us and protected us against our enemies.....In return we swore that we should always be their men. Stark men!"



When you go out your way to save the condemned, they owe everything to you and they know it. The Wildlings, Karstarks, and Umbers illustrate this on the show. The other houses can accept this because they are connected too. 



Jon's decision was the lease disruptive and most likely to deliver permanent strong allies. Sansa way was tradition but NOT very smart; the disruption would be wide spread as they went through a replacement of the existing order. 






That leads to the big question. Did Sansa learn the right lessons from Cersei? Cersei is about "hard power;" the power to compel and the power to break if you disobey. Little Finger's power is based on the power to manipulate. 



Did Sansa learn the wrong lessons? Jon is the Stark that Robb should have been. I am liking King Jon.No idea why he didn't mention that the Starks themselves had been kicked out of their ancestral home and didn't take kindly to it. Oh and it didn't end well for the Boltons either
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Jon Snow is not Lord of Winterfell. He told Sansa she is the Lasy of Winterfell, told her to take the Lords room (which he may have idk), and HBO has her listed as LoW last I heard. He didn't steal anything from her. As Lady Bolton technically the Dreadfort belongs to Sansa.

But you're right, I much more expect that the showrunners forgot about it, or will simply never touch on that issue again.Stuff like this is why I'm really unhappy with having to watch the show play out before reading the booksI was expecting Sansa's argument at the meeting to be just a show and was a plan between him and Jon, you know, like good cop bad cop to make Jon looks even better. 

But nope, she's just a Cersei wannabe.I believe Boltons "all" being dead is enough closure for the show, and they or the Dreadfort won't be brought up again.As well as remembering how precious Winterfell was not only to himself (even if he felt he never really belonged) but to Sansa too. I think there's some of that "your ancestral home is your whole family's sacred property" empathy going on along with the sins of the fathers/bastardy thing you mention. Drain the Swamp, remove the Crannogmen from the Neck.Yeah, and the Freys too. I'm not sure this will go down as the smart move that everyone thinks it is when he starts hunting down the Bolton heir to award the Dreadfort back to them. I don't think many of his men will like that, and we've already seen what happens when Jon charges ahead with the honorable decision while completely ignoring the political consequences.They likely won't even bring up the Dreadfort anymore for the remainder of the show. Despite fighting for centuries the dreadfort stood and was held by Boltons. I think he could kick it to Davos pretty easy politically but iirc Roose did not have any kin peft.There aren't any living Boltons, so not really.  It will be used with Dany as well. Despite what a terrible ruler she is.> In the book, they more or less give away the homes. They changed this on tv. 

The book hasn't gotten here yet.>For example, Sansa not telling Jon about Littlefinger and the Vale's army was an emotional/illogical decision. She made an emotional decision that perhaps only had .5 seconds in the "logic chamber." Sansa (1) arguing with the King of the North publicity, (2) not understanding she should speak to him privately, and (3) not being able to see anyone else's logic but her own is all highly emotional.

How are you criticizing Sansa for being emotional with the Vale knights decision when the only counsel that she gives Jon (that they'll never get Rickon back, and that Jon should go in with the mindset that Ramsey *will* manipulate him, so he shouldn't fall for it) is ignored in favour of Jon making an emotional decision? Or is it only alright for Jon to rush in after his brother was killed, but not alright for Sansa to try and do whatever she could to stay away from Ramsey?

>For anyone who can't see this, think of it this way: if Sansa was Queen of the North, and she said in that meeting the Karstarks etc would lose their castles for lack of loyalty, but Jon repeatedly interrupted and said she was wrong, what would she do/say? She would do as she feels. She would stick to her decision, berate Jon after, and still think she's always right.

You...you realize that Jon did this exact thing, right? Sansa interrupts, Jon ignores her and does what he wants, berates her, and thinks he's right. What exactly is the point you're trying to make here?

Your Arya example is wrong.

She initially wants to kill the Hound. Then she doesn't kill him and even gets hit for lying during the face game for saying she wanted him dead.

Just nitpicking.Not sure why Sansa called out Jons move tbh.

Joffrey rewarded those that followed him in s2/3 (can't remember exact season/episode) with property and short term rewards like Sansa suggested.

Jon did the opposite and he got compared to Joffrey...I suspect he will do, Them being kids makes them young enough to mold how he sees fit.

Had one of the heirs been middle aged they would surely be sent to the wall.Who is to say that he didn't give them trustworthy advisors? The scene was about fealty and a demonstration of his leadership and his power. I don't think the little lords are going to go back to their keeps and have Bolton sympathisers whispering in their ears. A lot of their kinsmen would probably be grateful that they were allowed to retain their seat and they are now united by a common enemy. 

Jon showed his subjects that he was not playing the Game of Thrones. He was preparing for the Long Night.  I think the fact that he articulated it so clearly garnered him more support than he could have lost.

What I am concerned about though is who now occupies the Dreadfort. That matter was not dealt with at the council and I felt like it should have been. The Boltons are now gone, but who gets their land in the exchange?  This was mine too. "Sansa of course they're gonna betray us, but they'll do so as zombies as their asses are gonna be whitewalker meatshields!!"So why wouldn't you install stronger lords there? The Umbers and Karstarks just got decimated by the Knights of the Vale. They can't defend their castles.

Rather stupid to have your meat shield be a paper shield no?Yes, the Last Harth will probably the last standpoint of fighting back if they loose the wall. I see what you're saying, but isn't "you are going to be human shields and the first line of defense when the army of the dead march down our way" already a pretty high tax? Whoever in those houses survives, if anybody, will have paid pretty dearly.Arya specifically sought out everybody who participated and assembled them for the toast, or at least that's what I got from it. I didn't see women or children, so presumably, some Frey heirs made it through. In addition, she left the child bride and serving girl (who is probably a lesser Frey anyway) alive in the room, and I suspect they weren't the only living souls left at the Twins.

I don't think every single Frey could have fit in that room anyway, even if it was missing women and children. 

"indiscriminately" is not how she did it at all. She appears to have done this QUITE discriminately. yeah gonna side 100% with Arya on that oneI think it's pretty clear almost every Frey participated in the Red Wedding.

They didn't just kill the feasting Lords, they butchered the armies as well.Not sure why Sansa called out Jons move tbh.

Joffrey rewarded those that followed him in s2/3 (can't remember exact season/episode) with property and short term rewards like Sansa suggested.

Jon did the opposite and he got compared to Joffrey...Yeah and led us to the point where the Karstarks were cool with the Boltons.

I would approve wholeheartedly of Jon distinguishing between the crimes of the Umbers versus the Karstarks. The Umbers gave up his brother. That is something especially heinous. 

While they may not have to be driven entirely from the Last Hearth, giving up some of the lands would be appropriate.>*one of Rob's biggest mistakes was not being able to show mercy to the Karstarks for their transgressions*

Actually, Karstark was not the least repentant and to the contrary, taunted Robb on whether he was going to slap Karstark's wrist for treason (like Robb's mild reproach towards Catelyn).  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lvUGkw8Syj4  

Karstark did not *bend the knee*.  Karstark murdered two Lannister children in protest at Catelyn releasing Jaime for her own agenda instead of for the agenda of the North. Robb mildly scolded her and said "shucks you shouldn't have, but gosh who can argue with a Mum."  Catelyn caused the Karstark revolt by putting her personal interests over "the realm".  So Robb's second mistake was showing favoritism to his own family over the needs of his bannermen. 

However, he could have weathered through this.  Robb's MAIN mistake was making a vow (to the Freys) then deciding to break it. This lost him *all of the Freys* (who I believe were a large force than the Karstarks anyway). it's possible he could have weathered losing the Karstarks (or even negotiated with them at some stage) had he not already lost so much of his army, that the karstarks were disgusted with him even before Jaime's release. In the show, Karstark told Robb he had lost the war the minute he married whatsherface. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pU83upcPWRQ



In order to show mercy to someone who bends the knew .. they first must *bend the knee* and express remorse. The Umber/karstark kids did this, swearing "Now And Forever",  but when Robb confronted the elder Karstark, he got jeers and taunts and no remorse at all. (Well, the kid who was on lookout duty seemed to show remorse...but he was hung anyway)

Likewise when Show!Jon hung Alliser Throne and Olly, they showed no remorse at all for their actions so mercy was not an option. Hmm though Janos Slynt expressed remorse and regret but got no mercy from Jon. not that i am crying for Janos Slynt.

"When your enemies defy you, you must serve them steel and fire"




Robb showed mercy to House Karstark.

He only executed the murderers. What are you talking about?

You think Jon wouldn't have cut Harrion or Rickard Karstarks head off?

The only reason he didn't execute anyone is because the guilty parties were already dead. >It cost him half his army.

300 men at most actually. This is something the show really exaggerated.Ned's mercy got Ned Stark and Robert killed.

There's no right way to do things. It depends on the context which is why I take aim at the show for trying to fit a one size fits all philosophy.That second part can also be seen way back in Season 1 when Robb allows his own direwolf to attack Lord Umber and bite off a few of his fingers. It works and Umbers swears loyalty to Robb, but the move is excessively violent and only foreshadows Robb's later problems.

Jon instead keeps his very large and intimidating direwolf out of the great hall and doesn't use him to scare everyone into submission.Yes. She called Jon out for being like Joffery but...

Joffrey rewarded those that followed him in s2/3 (can't remember exact season/episode) with property and short term rewards like Sansa suggested...Cersei and Little Finger's power works, but not when the enemy is at the gates.Sansa learned the villainous shortcuts - the shortcuts that ended with the Freys all choking on poison, and Cersei's cihldren all dead and her power damaged.

However, Sansa never saw the downside to the shortcuts. She saw Cersei turn on people and murder others and get everything she wanted, but didn't see it bite her. She thinks that Cersei won, and that if she can play a game like Cersei but for noble reasons, she will win too.

Littlefinger makes the long con, but how is that working for him? He spent so much time and energy on his big mysterious master plan, which he doesn't seem close to getting, and on his "bang Sansa" plan, which he seems even further away from. To Sansa, Littlefinger has lost, I think she views him as a loser.I think that you are forgetting that the politics in Westeros is about houses and legacy not about people. Jon absolutely made a mistake, and Sansa was absolutely right. What Jon did is basically said that if you betray him and try to improve the standing of your house then even if you fail your house doesn't risk anything.  

Jon naively believes that everyone is good and trustworthy. But Sansa knows that this is not the case. It's about the risk and reward, and if there is a reward for a house to betray someone and if there is little to no risk to the house in doing that then a lot of people will betray you. 


This scene showed perfectly well and actually spells it out for the viewers that without Sansa Jon will follow on the footsteps of Ned and Robb doing "right" but stupid things and relying on peoples' trustworthiness. On the other hand Sansa is painfully aware of that there is precious little of trustworthiness in Westeros.> Sansa way was tradition but NOT very smart; the disruption would be wide spread as they went through a replacement of the existing order.

Disagree. 

Sansa is expressing what the Lords are monologuing internally. Lords are not stripped of their power, title and lands because of spite. Having rebellious lords retain their power base means a grievance could nursed quietly and these same Lords could decide to betray them again. The suggestion was to actually remove the castles and knock them to the ground because that is how militaries deal with rebellious lords, a castle is a strategically held military installation not a "home". 

All of these great houses of the North are still trying to recover from the red wedding, they are still recovering from the battle of the bastards. Why should they have complete faith in a person who hands the same castles straight back the Umbers and the Karstarks who were in battle against them not more then a few weeks ago. These people are nursing some very valid grievances and have every right to demand they are protected from those who would betray them. This works for the show. I can't help but feel that this could not happen in the books. It is too Ned a kindness for it to go unpunished.

Small jon umber did not act alone. They delivered rickon to Ramsey... They killed his direwolf. They fought against the loyalists. 

I can see the sense in allowing a boy and a girl to continue the line. But in the books surely this would have strings attached. First of all, hostages. Take the heir as a squire, install a Castellain as regent. Take hostages into the loyal families, and arrange marriages with other families who suffered the most. 

It is simply unrealistic to do as Jon did in the show. It only works in that restricted analytical environment. Just like Dragonstone being totally empty... 

I think you have to make decisions like this on a case-by-case basis, though. You also have to be respected and maybe a little feared by the other houses. If one of the loyal houses has lost a big chunk of their family patriarchs or eldest children, for example, fighting against the Karstarks and Umbers... you may have just created new resentments among people who would otherwise be solid allies. 

We have no evidence that anyone has an irreconcilable difference with those two houses, and it may be the right choice, but I don't think it's as easy as "forgive the people who are condemned." They are condemned for good reason.> Sansa way was tradition 

Is it though?

If it were tradition, surely the Boltons would've been wiped out many a time previously for all their tomfoolery (by which I mean flaying of Starks and wearing of Stark skin).I think that she openly defied Jon to set off Littlefinger in his schemes. She said she learnt a lot from Cersei so being ahead of Littlefinger would be a good way of showing that. She knew Jon's decision was the right one but used it to her advantage.Agreed. Sansa, like Cersei, is an idiot who always thinks she's right, until it's too late. 

Takes me back to the Cersei x Tywin scene, where:
- Cersei basically says, "You don't take me seriously, because I'm a girl."
- Tywin retorts, "No, I don't take you seriously, because you're stupid, and you think you're far smarter than you actually are."
- Cersei's response is like "hmph!" instead of, "maybe he's on to something..."

The main issues are that Sansa and Cersei are at a baseline level, not very smart or strategic/forward-thinking.
- They cannot think further than 1 or 2 steps ahead.
- They only get that 1+1=2, but can't string together more complex algorithms, such as: "the winter zombies variable really fs things up, and now this is a new equation!"

She, like Cersei, is still trying to apply 1+1 here. 
- For that, she will likely die or be unhappy in the long run, which is unfortunate, because I want people to achieve their goals.
- If she stays alive, it will be because she is surrounded by good people who will have to save her from stupidity (ex: see how Cersei has stayed alive for so long, but now all those people are dying/being peeled away).> The Wildlings, Karstarks, and Umbers illustrate this on the show.

You literally just argued that his mercy towards the Karstarks and Umbers working out (despite the fact that absolutely nothing has happened in those relationships yet) showed the point that you're trying to use to defend those actions towards the Karstarks and Umbers.After reading your comment I just had an idea.

"So I should listen to you?"

"Would that be so bad?"

I feel like the one time Jon listens to her it will fuck them up> The Wildlings, Karstarks, and Umbers illustrate this on the show.

Right. Tormund *almost* sounds like he's going to deny Jon's request -- but then gleefully accepts it. He is the same good hearted and honorable, but not very bright guy that Robb was. Jon just happened to have a convenient red priestess revive him after one of his bigger fuckups and Sansa and Littlefinger save his ass when he messed up his own battle plan.Robb was a pretty good King, given that he wasn't even lord before becoming one. Keep in mind that Jon has done so much before becoming king, ranged north of the wall, infilitrated the wildlings, scaled the wall, returned to castle black and defended it against the wildling invasion, served as lord commander of the night's watch, fought at hardhome and killed a white walker (other), was literally murdered and brought back, and fought in the battle of winterfell.

Robb was just an heir (a teenager) who was thrust into a war after his dad died, and did pretty damn well as king for someone who was learning as they went along. He made some mistakes that ultimately lost him the war (the circumstances were still pretty fucked, betrayed at dinner, not beaten on the field) but overall i think Robb was a good king.He's a good ruler. Probably the most blatant foreshadowing we've seen thus far.I think those people who thought the karstarks and umbars should lose their hold  would have gotten hostile if they had been compared to the Bolton's. What the Bolton's did to the Starks is 100s of times worse than of they had kicked the umbars and karstarks out of their homes. Especially given the karstarks at least has an understandable reason to do so.I felt it was better left unsaid. To me, the argument was first and foremost about Winterfell. Jon knows what having home taken from you feels like it, but I don't think he needs to spell that out for the Lords in the hall (and I don't think he should)Odd how Jon is ruling Winterfell then, not Sansa.Then don't watch the show, right?Source?  No second cousins?I guess the difference with Dany is that she's TRYING to do what she thinks is the right thing, and TRYING to consider the lives and fate of others. Does that make her a worthy ruler? Of course not. But I do think it makes her fundamentally different than some other terrible rulers I can think of. You know?  Please see other posts that discuss this in more detail, in re: Karstark and Thenn marriage.I feel like you are responding a bit emotionally or do not understand where I come from, so I will explain. My thoughts are not emotionally or personally driven attacks on characters. I don't love or hate any of them; they're not real--but this fictional plot is very interesting. My thoughts are about Jon's decision with the Karstarks/etc. 

Who I root for are characters who are most likely to:
- (1) get the least amount of other people killed due to their mistakes,
- (2) not get themselves killed due to their mistakes, and
- (3) achieve their goals, regardless of whether they are good or bad.
My analyses come purely from these standpoints. 

My analysis is that Sansa has done some very stupid things to (1) get others killed due to her mistakes, (2) get herself killed, and (3) further her goals (which at the moment, is upholding house Stark, maintaining Winterfell, and supporting her brother as King--this could later change).
- The public disagreement with her brother is an example of this failing at (3);
- the spectrum examples are where she fails at (1) and/or (2), due to her emotional decisions. 

This does not necessarily mean I hate her or conversely, love Jon. This just means I think she's done enough stupid things to constitute general stupidity. Jon is sometimes stupid; I reserve further judgment for if I believe he becomes generally stupid. 

You could believe Sansa has not done stupid things and thereby disagree with anything I believe, which I would accept and respect. 

But I will answer your questions. I have clarified and unbundled them below for easier reading.

You mention that:
- (a) I believe Sansa is making an emotional decision by not telling Jon about Littlefinger/Vale knights, but you ask how can this be, when the only counsel she explicitly gave was "to not do what Ramsey wants, which will be the obvious thing";
- (b) You say I criticized Sansa, but mention that Jon ignored her advice and made an emotional decision. I think you are trying to ask why I didn't criticize Jon;
- (c) You basically ask if I am only attacking Sansa, and if I fail to recognize they both make emotional decisions;
- (d) that I criticize Sansa for publicly disagreeing with her brother, while he did the same to her in the same scene. You ask why it's not ok for Sansa to do that to Jon, when Jon did it back. 

-----
- In re (a): The issue is not with the counsel she gave, but with the info did NOT give: what she knew about Littlefinger and the knights of the Vale. This would have addressed (1), (2), and (3): decreasing the likelihood of killing others and herself (she would have rather died than go back to Bolton) and achieving her goals. Her life is at stake here, too. 

Here, what Sansa did privately tell Jon was not to do what Ramsay wants. Thereafter, Jon asks Sansa for more solid instructions, and Sansa does not know but says "just don't do what he wants you to do/which will be the obvious thing," Jon makes fun of this, and Jon does not listen.

She should have told him, as she later admits, and they could have used this in strategizing and potentially avoiding the loss of so many soldiers' lives senselessly.

- In re (b): This post is about which Stark made the right move; after I state my case, I give the spectrum examples--but they aren't the main point. Sansa's made many mistakes in promoting her house, something she wants, from the beginning of the series to now. Right now, Jon is head of the house. 

Now, this doesn't mean I think Jon is always right. He isn't. I just happen to think Sansa is more often less right than Jon, and this public disagreement is a strong instance of that. 

To rehash the spectrum, everyone is on a spectrum; Jon and Daenarys are becoming more similar / they're more logical tempered with some emotion. There's still emotion, and neither of them are comparable to Tywin, Tyrion, or Varys as political masterminds.
- That being said, perhaps the series is trying to comment that while Tywin, Tyrion, and Varys are political masterminds, 2 of them lack a moral chip.
- Perhaps the series is trying to say there should be some balance on the spectrum, even if that balance comes with mistakes.
- Perhaps--these are speculations. Sure, I could write essays on everyone's mistakes/cons/pros. But those are other topics (see also: I think Cersei is generally stupid, but that's also another essay in itself).

But to respond to your question, yes, Jon made battlefield errors. I think they were two-fold.
- I think his first error was not emotional; he was undermanned and didn't have a strong plan. 
- Some may say his hands were tied/can only do so much with x amount of men, but I don't know enough about military strategy to comment on that.
- What I can say, is that strategizing could have been significantly altered to their benefit, had Sansa told him about the Vail. But she didn't. This is important to my analysis, because many people ended up dying because of this.
- His second aforementioned error was emotional. What he does after he sees his brother/cousin killed--that is purely emotional and stupid and put goals 1-3 at risk, leading us to (c).

- In re (c): I am not a fan of any of these characters in the way others might be. None of them are perfect; some are even less perfect than others. To me, Jon has also done stupid things, but he has so far done less stupid things than Sansa, in regard to (1) getting others killed, (2) getting oneself killed, and (3) achieving his goal (Sansa's are currently upholding her family, maintaining Winterfell, and supporting her brother as King; Jon's are currently defeating the white walkers by banding everyone who will listen together).

- In re (d): The main point is that Sansa isn't the figurehead; Jon is. The issue with Sansa disagreeing with Jon is that she did it publicly, and he's the ruler. 

It would be an issue if Sansa was the figurehead, and Jon did the same. It undermines the authority of the Stark household as leaders of the North, and it gives an image of inner turmoil / a house not united / gives roots for followers to take sides between the 2. That's why there's an issue that she does it so publicly.

You ask why I don't criticize Jon for disagreeing with her opinions. The criticism is not just for disagreeing but doing so publicly.
- In doing so, not only did she undermine his authority and her own goals to support him as King, but also, in this world, she should keep their laundry private, lest people like Littlefinger wiggle in to make those crevices larger.
- She should know this, especially after spending all that time in King's Landing with all the schemers and sadists. 

Had she aired her disagreements privately, no issue at all.

Hope this helps understand my stance. On the show, to me, he's still on her list / it's not absolutely clear he isn't, and she plans to kill everyone on the list. I don't think she has necessarily taken him off. He was at/near the end, and we will likely see a final meeting between them, where she may decide not to kill them. 

I think at the end of her arc, one test/question will be whether she follows through/finally takes him off her list. But as of now, my assessment of her stands. 

However, the Ed Sheeran scene may have been an indication that she will change. Yea you're right, things happen off screen as much as they do on screen. 

About the Boltons though, isn't their entire line dead by now? If the Starks are giving the castle to someone else (they can destroy it but that's wasting castles in times like these) who will it be? 

Most of the lords who fought for Jon are already loyal, and there aren't a lot of homeless houses out there willing to fight the Others left. 
I guess Jon can split the ground between the surrounding houses like Manderly and Karstark, but they haven't done anything yet. 

But all these questions pretty much go to your point that it just needs a strong army to garrison it come winter, it's no time for the Game when the real war comes. > Janos Slynt expressed remorse

He only expressed remorse after Jon ordered him taken to the yard to be beheaded. Even while he was being led outside he was  still talking shit then once the reality hit him he was all apologies. Jon took over the Nightswatch during a hostile time. He had to make an example out of that coward to keep Thorne and his goons in linetotally agree. but asides from the remotse if rob was fair he should've executed cat with the karstsrk dude. he was trying too hard to act all tough.I am not sure, perhaps Jon would have send them to the Wall. You would think that he should have executed Melisandre for burning a child, but he didn't. I remember that bad ass line where one of the party was saying he didn't kill anyone he just watched and Robb said that he could be hanged last since he was just the watcher lolIn the books the Karstarks weren't vital to Robb's army, but mattered a great deal in the North, with few fighting men left to support the Starks. 

However, I think the Karstarks were made more powerful in the show, initially to highlight that Robb really needed to replace the Karstarks with the Freys. Well 300 were only the cavalry and they had already been lost before robb even killed rickard because theyd been sent away to hunt jaime. The infantry were with bolton at harrenhal and one of the few that he didnt send on his suicide missions since they were obviously gonna betray the starks. 
But yeah show really exaggerated that.They said in the books ire Roose Bolton that it was about 1,000 Karstarks in total I think as they were "foraging" ie hunting for Jaime. Ned's mercy vs Jon's mercy are totally different. Taking away an ancestral home is a boneheaded move when your entire support relies on Northern loyalty.

The Karstarks and Umbers are too young to be real threats yet and would be bigger enemies if you took their castles. Cersei Lannister on the other hand, her head should be on a spike before you even think about mercy. Now, whether to take Casterly Rock from the Lannisters, later? That's a better analogy.ned's whole character revolves around how he despises when innocent children are killed. he was marked by the killings of the babies when the lannisters sacked KL. he distances himself from the king because he's not ok with the killing of dany. when he discovers the truth he is worried of what would happen to cersei's children. he doesn't act out of mercy, he acts 100% true to his character.> It depends on the context which is why I take aim at the show for trying to fit a one size fits all philosophy.

Why do you say it's on the show and not on Jon?  I'm sure many characters disagree with Jon's choice.  Sansa certainly did.  The show was pretty clear in saying that Jon's way isn't the only way.  Jon is the one with a "one size fits all philosophy," if anything.  And that's very in-line with his character as well.But it doesn't take a one-size fits all philosophy, since Jon already executed traitors and a child to boot. 

It's not like Sansa doesn't make good points either, she just makes them at a bad time which is also not purely her fault because she and Jon clearly didn't discuss it beforehand. It's a difference between North and South. In the North the majority of people believe in stuff like honor, and there is no geal game there. Hence Eddard was such a beloved Warden of the North. He was a good fit to ruling the North. But not so much to ruling the South.

Jon again is a good fit to rule the North but not the SouthShowing mercy towards the Lannisters versus a house which has been loyal for hundreds of years are very different things, but i agree with your larger point about context and every decision being made on a case by case basis.Been a while so don't remember too specifically but wasn't it a mistake for Robb to keep Grey Wind caged later on because his wifes family or someone of the sort was afraid of it where as Catelyn Stark saw the wolves protecting them. So not quite sure if pushing his wolf the stark banner aside is such a great move.


Then in the case of Lord Umber he had bared his steel in front of his liege lord because he saw him as a weak summer child and wanted to lead the army himself. Umber needed to see Robb as an Alpha of sorts so showing weakness would have been failure and that's what happened even though Robb himself was worried about the outcome luckily it worked. While the Karstark situation was abit ore fragile as he murdered two boys in their cells out of anger for Jaime escaping and directly against Robbs orders. It kind of got around to killing him would be honorable but not the best decision as it made him a kin slayer and lost him his army. Jon definitely made a great play sparing the houses but the small Jon had already died at the field would he have spared him as well?>I think that you are forgetting that the politics in Westeros is about houses and legacy not about people.

Except it is about the people as well. You act in treason, you will lose your head. Jon's point was that he will not destroy everyone for the actions of a few. Even in our own human history there's plenty of examples where an enemy state is defeated only to be brought back as a puppet/client-state with other family members of the same name in power.

There's times in history where members of a house would actually defect and side with their invaders in hopes for being put in power over their father/older brother/ etc.

Alys and Ned could grow up with hatred for the Starks and rebel in the future, but it's also just as likely that they won't.

Also, why would replacing those families be any easier on tension? How will Jon decide who takes their place? Will there not be squabble and animosity between the minor families of "We sacrificed more for the Starks, we deserve those lands!", "We were always loyal!" etc.

I agree with Jon's decision of leaving the remains of both houses in power and working towards facing the real threat.Jon made the right choice. You either have to kill out the whole house such as Tywin did with the Reynes, or you have to forgive them, there no middle ground.

These children will grow up one day, and they would grow up hating you for taking away their family home. By taking away their lands and castles you are just giving them a reason to rebel against you in the future. That is how it works. This whole story is about avenging violence that was committed against the family. Dany is now invading Westeros because her home was taken away. Arya just killed all of the Freys, because she was there to do it. You create a cycle of violence by punishing those that does not deserve it. This is also what the whole Broken man speech is about. 

Theon was punished for his father's crimes, he was treated very well by the Starks, yet he still betrayed the Starks and caused damage to the Stark family that can never be rectified. 
The lesson here is simple if all of the Greyjoys died then it wouldn't have happened, if Theon had remained by his father's side and wasn't punished for his father's crimes then it wouldn't have happened. 

You have two options kill everyone, or forgive them. 

If someone is willing to bend knee, then they they are in your debt if you show them mercy. This is how Aegon conquered Westeros, he showed mercy, he didn't punish those who were willing to bend the knee, and he won their loyalty. Jon is in emergency mode, and rightfully so. Tomorrow can wait. The day after tomorrow can REALLY wait. The possibility of a rebellion in twenty years? Thats as relevant to him as the heat death of the universe is to me.

Jon cares only about the best use of his resources to stop the night king. Fuck absolutely anything that isn't that.Small Jon Umber's dad died with Robb (right?) at the Red Wedding so what is the reward for that loyalty?  When in the same span of time you have members of a family both giving their life for your family and also betraying your family how do you reward one and punish the other?  Or is the lesson that the families learn is that all the sacrifices you make can be wiped clean in an instance and it is safer just to stay out of things and neither help nor hinder.

Also there is a fortress in the sea off of Finland that keeps getting taken over by one group or another without fighting (in history) because though a strategic location it is not worth the risk and cost to hold.  Dragonstone is easy to cut off from resources and winter has arrived and there is no money left and the Lannister army is struggling with starvation as it is. If real world militaries would give up strategic island based fortifications why is it so hard to believe that this would happen here? 

Once Dany's boats are destroyed dragonstone becomes a prison. It's only strategic if you have a fleet and up to now Cersei doesn't have one. Holding that fortress doesn't stop Dany from landing somewhere else. > This works for the show. I can't help but feel that this could not happen in the books. It is too Ned a kindness for it to go unpunished.

Have you not read the last two books? 

Tywin "omg so epic and practical!" Lannister's politics: immediately after he dies one of his children goes completely insane with power, one separates himself completely from his family and throws himself into his duty as Kingsguard, and the last dedicates his life to the destruction of the Lannister name. They have no real allies and no loyalty.

Ned "omg haha so naive and stupid xD!" Stark's politics. His house is dead and disgraced, yet the entire North is itching to rise up for him and his family. They know the Starks, they respect the Starks, they love the Starks. The Starks are going to be instrumental in saving the world and it's going to be on the back of Ned's teachings. That last book wasn't called "A Time for Wolves" for nothing.
If the show had time they could solves this by digging a little deeper in the politics. That's were the books really shine. Realistically, Jon can still reward loyalist by marrying Alys to a lesser son of a noble house and letting them take the Karstark name while having Ned fostered with a loyal family until he comes of age. There is a middle ground between "burn them all" and "let's forgive and forget" the show just lacks the time to really dig down that deep into the politics now that thing are starting to speed up with both the White Walkers and Dany's invasion. The Starks wiped out House Greystark for their treason. The Boltons were initially an enemy, and allowed to live once they bent the knee. That's completely different. What the Umbers and Karstarks did was treason.Or the Barrow as well. But at the same time the Karstarks were born to replace a rebelling lord house, so that happened as well. There is no rule IMO.Interesting. This brings up the general idea of Sansa's future. When she was talking to Brienne, she admitted that LF was still around because they need the men. How does one get rid of LF and keep the Vale? Once it comes out that LF betrayed Ned (via The Hound, perhaps), then they could be justified in killing him. To solidify an alliance with the Vale with LF out of the picture, one option would be through marriage. Sansa married to Robin Arryn could make her a Queen of Thorns type matriarch for the Vale. The Stony Queen, perhaps? Instead of thinking of her as a Cersei Junior, why not an Olenna level schemer? 

But the White Walkers are coming, and there may be no time for any of this. It reminds me of Margaery's unrealized long-con, whatever it was, and being blown up anyway. Interesting. Can you flesh this out? There was definitely some suggestive camerawork and it was hard to read why/what Littlefinger's expression was. It seemed like pride or satisfaction or maybe just that he was pleased at something he'd caused to happen... but I didn't figure out exactly.very interesting; i didn't think of this, but i feel like she hasn't decided to side with Littlefinger yet.This is a pretty poor analysis. Sansa is much more of a forward thinker than Jon, who gets himself killed or nearly killed repeatedly and only survives because better people are constantly looking out for him or working on his behalf - Ned Stark, Jeor Mormont, Qhorin Halfhand, Mance Rayder, Tormund, Sam, Davos and Melisandre. Sansa, on the other hand, has actually had to survive on her own wits because she doesn't have magic priestesses waiting to bring her back from the dead.

Sansa's strategy of withholding the Knights of the Vale until Ramsay was committed to the field is what won the Battle of the Bastards. She made a plan that successfully accounted for both Ramsay and Jon's behavior. A siege against Winterfell could not have been won. Jon ran headlong into a trap that Sansa warned him about, and nearly got himself and his whole army slaughtered.Sansa being an idiot is a bit of an overstatement I think

Sansa learned from watching Cersei, Joffrey, Ramsey and Littlefinger rule.  I think she can be given a benefit of the doubt if she takes a hardline approach.  The only "wise" rulers she knew were Ned and Robb and they were both killed before she started paying attention to what was going on around her.Christ, the girl just gave a suggestion and then dropped it after Jon wasn't swaying on his stance. She isn't Cersei-like or evil/revenge-obsessed for thinking that the houses who betrayed her family should be punished for it. Why have laws if you aren't going to uphold them? And please tell me how it's Sansa that isn't forward thinking when her brother is the one basically laying down future precedent for the family members of any house that betrays them to go without punishment?

I don't think either of them were 100% right (though I am swaying to Jon simply because the threat of the walkers should be number 1), but that doesn't mean Sansa was wrong. Jon is dangerously close to developing the tunnel vision on the walkers that did both Ned and Robb in. Just because one threat is huge doesn't negate the danger of the other threats.



I thought it was interesting how those lines seem so similar to the Cersei x Jaime lines we see later in the episode:  

"Are you frightened of me?"  
"Should I be?"  I actually think it's foreshadowing an extremely high functioning governance by Sansa, almost a good cop/bad cop deal with the siblings, with Jon being beloved and Sansa feared.

That would also invert a trope where the warrior king is feared and the beautiful queen is beloved, and the show likes to do that for sure.I think part of Sansa's issue is that she has experience in the South, where alliances are so fluid and you can't trust anyone to have your back. I think she wanted to reward the loyal families in order to better ensure their further support, mainly because in the South, a slight like that could mean the difference in having them support your cause later on. 

I think the north just has a very different way, and Jon is more aware of that than Sansa is. I think she'd probably be right if this weren't the north. I wish Jon would have been like "You've been in the south for too long, It's different up here"It seems Sansa has more Tully in her than Stark. She's repeating [her mother's habit of meddling into political affairs on the basis of blood relation to her King](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VgaNXPOD9wY) (watch that and be infuriated). Here's hoping Jon avoids Rob's mistake and distance himself from Sansa early on.Thats probably for optics as much as anything. He has to be seen as Jons equal to retain leadership of the free folkBigger fucksups? He made the right choice, he was murdered by a bunch of bigots. 

Robb doesn't deserve a lot of the shit he gets in hindsight, he was a good battle commander. I'm still pissed about that. So out of character. So dumb. I hope the books really flesh that out or change it completely. Jon has strong, deep emotions, but he's never once been impulsive in a wreckless way has he?I don't think Robb was a good king at all.  He failed to make wise decisions on the regular and these poor decisions cost the lives of not just himself, but all his soldiers, his mother, wife, unborn child, and the loyalty of two ancient allies. Pretty big eff up, if you ask me.

The only thing he was, was a brilliant tactician. 

I'd trust him to lead an army into battle, but not to rule.
If Jon Arryn had died 5 years later, or if Robb had been 5 years older, he would have won the Iron Throne. There would have no Jayne Westerling (or Talisa) debacle as he would have been married off to form strategic alliances. Wonder who that would have been? Myrcella?  The fact is, Jon has been allowed to grow from his mistakes in Robb couldn't because Jon lived a lot longer and even got to come back after being killed.Sure but he could've just said in that very Jon way "myself and lady Sansa have experienced being thrown unceremoniously from our ancestral seat. I know that no Karstark would rest until they had regained it. Unless I remove their house root and stem they will seek to reclaim what is theirs. As winter and the night king comes for all of us I don't believe any of us wish to remove a strong and noble house from the North forever. We need every man woman and child for the war to come. AYE I FOUGHT WITH THE WILDINGS, I SLEEP WITH THE WILDINGS, I LAY WITH A WILDING WOMAN" etc etcEspecially given some of those lords lost their homes to the iron bornIf he's a Targaryen bastard, that's kind of what he's doing. He could be KITN from the Dreadfort. Winterfell is for the Starks.Jon is KitN and that kind of supercedes whoever is Lord or Lady of Winterfell.  It just happens that Winterfell was his home.They'd still hear about the major plot points anyway.I can't help it I'm fiending for my ASOIAF/GOT fix [removed]True, but I'll always remember when Daario told her that she's not a ruler, she's a conqueror.Yes, I know about that part. I'm saying THIS thing has not happened in the books. It is completely different, since it takes place after Jon's death/coming back to life/being king.Your assessment absolutely does NOT stand.

She hasn't said her list since before going in the House of Black and White. When she was on the steps and repeating her list, s5e2, she names: Cersei, the Mountain, Walder Frey, and Meryn Trant.

He is specifically not on the list.

Not only that, she refused to kill him given the chance in s4e9.

And during the lying game she said she wanted him dead, and was hit repeatedly for lying. Jaqen H'gar then said she lies to him, to others, and to herself.

This is overwhelmingly clear. She does NOT want to kill him after their journey together. Not only does she not want to kill him, she refuses to kill him given the chance.

You are wrong.House Seaworth needs a seat.Yeah having that castle is very valuable as a winner's prize once the War is over, but I think as it stands it belongs to Sansa now that I think about it. Yeah I agree, Jon gave him several chances too.300 ride off from Riverrun to try and find Jaime after Cat releases him, the rest were sent to Duskendale and to die as far I remember. Maybe Roose overshot it or it's just a continuity error?>Ned's mercy vs Jon's mercy are totally different. Taking away an ancestral home is a boneheaded move when your entire support relies on Northern loyalty.

Not really. Northerners were fine either way. But Sansa's right. You don't leave people in power after you kill their father and brother. They're gonna want revenge eventually. You don't need to take their castles but you do need to depower them.

>The Karstarks and Umbers are too young to be real threats yet and would be bigger enemies if you took their castles.

Who do you think rules in their name? Ned Umber likely has an uncle that could be a problem and same with Alys.

If you take their castles then they have no real power. They're landless nobles at that point.

Personally, I'd marry Alys to someone loyal and break up some Umber land especially since the Umbers are the ones that handed my brother to Ramsay.

Being merciful is 100% true to his character It was her fault. She chose to undermine him in front of his bannermen. Good points aside, her timing was abysmal. I think, this calling out against Jon in fort of the Lords is one of the things Sansa learnd from Cersei.Also you can see that in the way that both Jon and Sansa act, Jon acts the whole time in the northern way because he was raised his whole (2) life(s) in the north and beyond, when Sansa learned politics she was in the south and learned their ways, so there's that.The North doesn't really believe in honor though. Ned Stark is more the exception than the rule, given that he was raised in The Eyrie by an Arryn whose words were "Higher than Honor." His brother Brandon didn't really have problems running around deflowering virgins and Lyanna (if she went willingly with Rhaegar, which probably 85% of people now believe) did not behave honorably when she broke her engagement and became the lover of a married man with children. 


Rather, I think it's more strength and frankness that they respect. Ned was strong, never shied away from the gore of beheading the convicted, and was always honest. Jon is similarly strong and straightforward which is what got him elected to become King in the North. Because strictly speaking, the honorable thing would have been to make Sansa the Queen, as real life history and Winterfell's history shows lands and titles can pass matrilineally, but never through bastards. 


I'm kind of 50/50 on your last point though. Jon *did* get killed by men from the North after all, so he wasn't exactly an effective ruler of Northmen because he failed to understand one of their major fears. There's more to it than just Starks vs Lannisters. Littlefinger was actively working to sew discord. There's really no right answer when you have a troll setting two sides against each other.> Showing mercy towards the Lannisters versus a house which has been loyal for hundreds of years are very different things

No, they aren't. You're *literally* judging a person for the actions of their ancestors right now. I think the 'right' move for Robb with the Karstarks was to send Lord Karstark to the wall and let him take the black.  This punishes him for the murders and defiance but doesn't cost you the entireity of house Karstark in your army.You bring up a good point. The two situations are very different. 

I'm not sure Greywind would have saved the Red Wedding. Had he been present, the Freys would have just changed their strategy a bit. They would have lost more men, but Walded wouldn't have minded fewer mouths to feed.

As for the rest, yes, Robb was looking to prove himself and the North was looking for someone a bit more ruthless. The North basically wants another Rebellion. The thing is, that bit of violence they encouraged in Robb doesn't really help them in the end. Jon is all about the big pictureThat's a good point about the greatjon. It would have been epic if Jon had mention his and the elder karstark and his two sons' sacrifice.> Have you not read the last two books?

In the last two books

- The Riverlords are only accepted back into the Crown's fealty if they give up hostages, marry certain Crown allies, lose lands/incomes, etc.
- Roose only accepts the fealty of northern lords who give up hostages, lose lands/incomes, etc
- Doran exiles, marries off, forces servitude, imprisons, places a bounty on their head, etc., of everybody involved in the Myrcella plot
- Randyll only accepts Lord Mooton's surrender after he marries Dickon to Elenor, and then Randyll rules Maidenpool in Mooton's name
- The High Septon only frees Margaery to the Tyrells after Randyll swears a holy vow to return her for her trial
- Euron makes Victarion sail across the world to get Dany to prove himself to him
- Dany takes hostages, rights, rituals, and tokens from the masters in Mereen
- Jon takes hostages, gold, food, service, etc., from the wildlings
- Stannis' northmen only agree to bend the knee if they get Arya and can kill some Boltons and ironborn
- Manderly, Locke, Flint, and Robett Glover only agree to support Stannis if Davos can get them Rickon

Etc.

The last two books repeatedly show us that people don't just accept fealty from people they don't trust unless they have assurances. Show Jon had none from the Karstarks and Umbers. He should've taken something from them to keep their peace. It could've even been seen as an honour if he accepted Ned as his squire or something where there's an eventual prestige.

Not to mention, but you ignored that Ned Stark took Theon Greyjoy from Balon after the Greyjoy Rebellion precisely to ensure that Balon hopefully wouldn't try anything again. Ned did no believe in simply assuming your allies are your allies because they say they are.Sorry, but I see speculation about the next two books, not analysis based on the last two. Other than Wyman manderly's "the north remembers" speech, there is no indication whatever that Ned Stark's honourable approach was anything but unwise. How interesting that we can have such a stark contrast in what we took away from the books though ;)My head-canon, literally, is that the Dreadfort will be given to the second son of house Glover, that little Ned Umber fosters on Bear Island, and that Tormund gets the northern quarter of Karhold and Last Hearth's workable land to support resettled free folk.  But Ned is lord of Last Hearth and Alys is Lady of Karhold.  The Boltons rebelled multiple times though.I was thinking that she openly defied Jon to act like there was some rift between them. So of course Littlefinger will think this is a weakness and try to exploit it. But Sansa being a step ahead will use his next move against him being a schemer like Cersei.Sansa survived because Kings Landing believed she was the Key to the North, she never had to show any wits or think much for herself until recently, she has never sacrificed anything she cared for.  

She withheld battle information that killed more Northern soldiers than necessary. A siege could have been won much easier, since they had a giant.

After the battle Ramsay ran into the castle and barred the gates. Wun wun had to break the gate for them to get in, so they didn't even avoid the issues of a siege. If they did that from the start, it would completely have surprised Ramsay. Lol, when had Sansa, in the books and the show, done something witty that benefits her? She's been a pawn throughout the course of the entire books and show. Littlefinger was clearly on his way to the BOTB before Sansa mysteriously met up with him, to credit her for fetching him is dumb. Don't act like Sansa planned for anything that happened in that episodeA plan that she withheld from everyone and got a lot of their troops needlessly killed. The Vale forces could have flanked them at the start of the battle and it would have had a similar result, just with their army mostly intact. So yeah, pretty stupid.Not to mention Jon has already been "Robbed" once.  Stabbed in the back by people who were ostensibly allies but whom he deeply offended by moves which he felt were justified and honorable but were ultimately too much for them to bear.I said in a different post, but briefly re-summarizing: the main issue is she undermined Jon's authority publicly. That's stupid, because it goes against her current goals to uphold her house, maintain Winterfell, and support her brother as King.

I analyze characters in 3 parts:
- (1) are they increasing the likelihood of killing others by their decisions; 
- (2) are they increasing the likelihood of killing them selves by their decisions; 
- (3) are they achieving their goals, for better or worse, with their decisions?

Sansa and Cersei frequently both fail at some or all of these. In the public disagreement with her brother, Sansa failed at #3. 

The comparison between her and Cersei is not that Sansa is evil. She's not, and I never made that comparison. The comparison is that they're both stupid and both are vengeful. I suppose the question you may have is whether being vengeful equals being evil. 
- To me, they aren't necessarily equivalent. To me, evil would be more sociopathic/holding the general population's lives in disregard.
- While being vengeful could echo some of this, it doesn't apply to the general population, but to those who one specifically feels wronged by.
- Certainly, others can disagree. 

You asked me to explain why I believe Jon is more forward thinking.
- Jon is forward-thinking, because he wants humanity to survive the Whitewalkers, so that if they do, then they can go worry about whatever Sansa worries about.
- My point is that Sansa, like Cersei, is still thinking about court games and domination within the North/wherever/setting precedence, whereas the big macro picture here is: that won't even be an issue, if they're all dead.
- If they survive the WW, and that time comes, they can deal with it then. GOT is basically in martial law now and humanity should be trying to survive. 

In re "what's the point of the law, if you aren't going to uphold it."
- I would argue that the point of laws should be two-fold: (1) does this make sense and (2) true CULPABILITY--something that Jon hits on. Not blindly following it/tradition.
- That is certainly different from previous GOT laws of antiquity that don't necessarily make sense.
- For example, Ned is traditional. He follows antiquated law and persecutes the deserter, because "that was the law," regardless of whether he actually saw a WW, should be persecuted for deserting, or if there were mitigating factors. Others later attested to the deserter's good character, and that he would not have deserted without reason. 

I suppose what makes this show very interesting is that, if we think about it on a deeper level, we have to think of these things that apply to the real world:
- Should the deserter have been persecuted? If so, why? If not, why?

This brings us to a more important question: should we, as individuals and society, follow laws blindly? Or should we think about them and understand our laws? Are laws meant to change? (I highly recommend everyone take a course in con law).

From a legal standpoint, I would say no; yes; and yes.
- We should not follow laws blindly. We should understand the laws--and our rights--and think about them. 
- Laws are not necessarily static, and they can and sometimes should change. 

Throughout the history of time, laws have always been in flux; they are a reflection of society and it's changes, and they and their punishments have changed throughout time. Sometimes, society goes through darker times. 
- At one point in American history, segregation was legal, and failure to comply was serious crime with serious penalties.
- At one point in European history, aiding/hiding Jews was illegal, and to aid in any form was punishable by death or serious labor.

Laws change, and sometimes they should. It is sometimes ok to not uphold the past laws or change them. 

Perhaps Jon is doing just that, in his Karstark decision. Perhaps is focusing more on culpability than setting precedence, and more on banding together to fight the WW to survive. Perhaps, or perhaps not. Interesting food for thought. EXACTLY not to mention this in S6E10 :

Think about this, these two scenes were mirror opposites of each other and played right after each other;

Jon, a male, being **crowned** by the peoples choice (love).

Cersei, a female, being **crowned** not by the peoples choice (fear).

BOTH scenes have a relative of the opposite sex with a stare on their face.

* Sansa stare with Littlefinger (Sansa didn't expect to see the north rally over her bastard **brother** - she discusses this with Littlefinger in the same episode)

* Jamie stare with Cersei (Jamie did not expect to see his **Sister** on the throne)

Both of which follow shortly after they RETURNED to eachother


too many similarities. 


I'm 100% Positive this is foreshadowing to betrayal for both story lines.Ah - I would love that. Now that you've suggested it I hope it manifests. Of the two of them, Jon Snow White is the fairy tale princess these days (at least in terms of temperment). He's singing with the bluebirds compared to Sansa's cynicism. While Cat has her issues, that video cheeses me right the fuck off.  She has darkness, dumbness, bravery, and light, as much as any of the other conflicted characters in the books.  Jaime is a prime example - Jaime is much more beloved, and even when we criticize him, we criticize *what the writers did to him* as opposed to him as a character.  Cat gets criticized as a character, and there's a long tradition of expounding undue wrath upon wife characters that are fully fleshed out (i.e. the death threats Anna Gunn from Breaking Bad received).Why do they keep saying Ned was already married before he married Catelyn? They think it's ashara daybed but that makes no senseLmao, that video is the stupidest fucking thing I've seen all week.One of Robb's mistakes was not listening to Cat though, as much as I don't like her she did have good points and he ignored them.It also gives them over a dozen new homes in the North if they succeed.Plus Tormund seemed to really enjoy all of that. It's not really out of character. Ramsay is much smarter in the show and Jon is a little dumber. In the books, Ramsay knowing how to push Jon's buttons in the perfect way doesn't really fit his characterization as a violent brute. But in the show, he's more maniacal and calculating about his torture. 

"Ramsay does something that manipulates Jon emotionally" is squarely within the characters they've set up in the show, but definitely wouldn't be earned in the books. "Jon resists emotional manipulation" is in line with his more deliberate book character, but not so much in a TV series that largely has characterized him through comparisons with Ned and a romantic plot line that reminds the viewer every episode how naive he is.Watching your brother be murdered/about to be murdered can make you act out of character, I would think.He was so good at war tactics that he never lost a single one. Against Tywin fucking Lannister. As great as he was in the battlefield, he lost the war due to his impulsiveness. Would have captured Lannisport and may be even Casterly Rock if not for a couple of rash decisions like killing Lord Karstark and that bitch Jayne Westerling/ Talisa. He did not 'kill the boy'.  Robb never wanted the Iron Throne, he wanted independence for the North and RiverlandsI've always wondered why Robb was already betrothed to someone at the jump. He was a big name and was going to get titles. Families should have been freaking out to get their daughters with him. Robb deserved a respawn too.And Jon *did* get killed.

It ain't Robb's fault he didn't have an extra life token.Jon also had more than just Ned to learn from (whether directly or indirectly). He had LC Mormont, Mance Rayder, and Stannis. Fair enough there are definitely ways he could have pulled it off but remember Jon is very new to being king and he's never been as good as the likes of tywin at getting his point across.He's far more of a Stark than he is a Targaryen. Dude. He's still a stark. Even more stark then targ. They're not the same anymore. These are different stories. I'm baffled that people have such a hard time dealing with this fact. [removed]This is also true. I guess I mean her heart is in the right place most of the time, even if she is childish, and unable to foresee the consequences of her actions.I will respectfully stick to my assessment. We'll see how this pans. I don't get as emotional as others do about this. This is just what I believe, and it's completely fine you or others don't. What I think is more important is for users to respect each other and accept that. I respect what you think and others, too. The Umbers and Karstark heads are old enough to understand their fathers' treason and Jon's mercy. They are also young enough to respect Jon as an older brother or father figure.

Marriage is the right move. Give the Karstark girl to Tormund so as to make an official Wildling house.

Not sure of any prominent women that they can throw Ned Umber to, though. i don't recall any instances of ned being merciful. the only scene i can recall where he has to judge someone is with the night's watch deserter and he just cuts off his head. not because he's evil but because that's the law. if he was merciful he would've tried to listen what the bloke had to say.Just to be a pedant, but only 2 out 4 mutineers were confirmed Northmen. Thorne is from the Crownlands. The Night's Watch is an apolitical organization, it's not really 'The North'.Not a person. Any surviving Karstarks, plus their castilians, plus the people who just fought in that battle could easily decide they feel a bunch of resentment about the battle that just happened, say the Starks killed their fathers, and decide to collude with the south just like Roose Bolton did the whole fucking time against Robb   Think of it like forgiving a family member versus forgiving someone you've never met.  The history changes the context.

Edit:  Instead of a stranger, a more accurate comparison would be a coworker you don't like.  The point still stands I think.Yeah, but then the Red Wedding probably wouldn't happen.Yes, it worked so well to punish Theon for his father mistakes. Theon was treated well, yet he still rebelled against the Starks in the end. Theon taking Winterfell from Robb was a massive hit to Robb's campaign in the south. If you punish children for their father's crimes you are just giving them a reason to hate you and rebel against you in the future. 

There are only two options. Kill the whole family or forgive the whole family. 

If all of the Greyjoys were killed then they wouldn't have been able go against the Starks. If Theon wasn't punished for his father's mistakes, and he just remained home on the Iron Islands, then he wouldn't have rebelled against Robb.
I have nothing to add here other than great comment. I love reading all the discussion regarding Jon vs. Sansa on the Karstark and Umber situation, and I was leaning towards Sansa's position. This definitely helped cement how I feel about this and how I don't think GRRM would write it this way. Book Jon would not do something like this, especially considering the efforts he made to forge alliances between the wildlings and the Northerners as LCAnd again I must ask if you actually read the books. The show conveniently left his out, but in the book Stannis rallies a good part of the North behind him to fight the Boltons. They don't give a crap about Stannis, his iron chair, or the Seven Kingdoms. They fight for "The Ned" and his little girl. That's the kind of loyalty that the Starks command from millennia of honourable conduct and just rule, not from petty power plays and revenge.now that would be an awesome twist, things are rarely that subtle in the show tho> Sansa survived because Kings Landing believed she was the Key to the North, she never had to show any wits or think much for herself until recently, she has never sacrificed anything she cared for.

She had to survive being at the mercy of two sadistic psychopaths with no defense but her own wits and social graces. Sansa's status as Key to the North helped, but didn't save her on its own. Ned was an even more important hostage than Sansa, but Joffrey cut off his head anyway.

> She withheld battle information that killed more Northern soldiers than necessary. A siege could have been won much easier, since they had a giant.

> After the battle Ramsay ran into the castle and barred the gates. Wun wun had to break the gate for them to get in, so they didn't even avoid the issues of a siege. If they did that from the start, it would completely have surprised Ramsay.

No. A siege against Winterfell in winter would have been utterly impossible. Wun Wun was able to break Winterfell's door down because Ramsay's army had already been lured out of Winterfell and destroyed, leaving only a token garrison (and even then they did a number on him). Wun Wun would have been butchered if he'd tried to approach a Winterfell defended by Ramsay's full strength.> Littlefinger was clearly on his way to the BOTB before Sansa mysteriously met up with him, to credit her for fetching him is dumb. Don't act like Sansa planned for anything that happened in that episode

Yeah, he was on his way before she met up with him... because she sent a raven calling him beforehand. Did you miss that part?

Just because you didn't pay enough attention to catch what Sansa did doesn't mean she didn't do it. That's on you, not her.People forget that Cersi Promised LittleFinger he'd be Warden of the North after he told her that the Boltons were traitors and married Sansa. (Season 5 Episode 6) He planned on arriving with the Vale and destroying Ramsey, then marrying Sansa with him officially ruling Winterfell. > A plan that she withheld from everyone and got a lot of their troops needlessly killed.

Nope, that was Jon who got his men killed, stupidly running into the very trap Sansa warned him about. If he'd stuck to his initial plan the Vale Knights would have shown up in time to flank Ramsey's army, with Jon's army mostly intact. Instead his army was forced to follow him into Ramsay's trap.Wasn't it more Jon recklessly abandoning position and going after Rickon, forcing the rest of his army into Ramsey's trap that got the vast majority of Jon's army injured? Even when literally everyone on his side counseled him not to go? Even with the Vale army, Jon would still fall into the same trap.

Sure Sansa could have relayed the information, and she probably should have for sake of creating a better plan together, but don't try to pin the damage to Jon's army on her. That was on Jon's dumb decision.It's not just her though. Her whole family except for Blackfish is a series of bad decisions and low-key assholery. She just takes the spotlight in the Tully-bash-parade because she's a central character.They've got an interesting take on the entire *book* series, and they got berated for it based on the *TV show*. Some of their theories seem to read way too much into some book events to the point of being outlandish, but it's interesting nonetheless.

Personally, I'd like to assume that the show diverged from GRRM's book canon beyond ADWD's events, so I'll side with them until TWOW/ADOS proves them wrong.ahaha Ashara Daybed
why, may I ask? I'm not taking a side, just curious if you have opinions counter to the video so I can see a different perspectiveCat's curse was that whenever she was right, she was ignored, and when ever she was wrong, she was listened to. It's actually pretty consistently that way through the entire story...Yeah like NOT sending Theon back to Pike. God damn it Robb, if you had just listened to your mother and kept your dick in your pants we would not be in this situation. Bloody rebellious teenagers. Agreed. Most people would panic here, I think.I am not sure. He was not a PoV character. Was this mentioned in the books somewhere?Ned doesn't seem to like politics. He might have just let Rob choose his own wife from among the eligible ladies of the North at the right time. 

Edmure is conspicuously unmarried. Yep, but he isn't the one with the mystical prophesy. It goes back to what the Hound said last episode, about who really deserves to live and die. Jon isn't really anymore deserving than Robb or Ned, but there he is, alive, because of a mystical prophecy.And Sam, Aemon, Thorne, Tormund, Yrggrite, Edd, and even Tyrion and Davos and Mel.

I think it's important to remember that even during some hard times, Jon was often surrounded by people who he could at the very least respect. He was often surrounded by people who even loved him and wanted what was best for him.

Robb and especially Sansa didn't have the same experience. And arguably learnt from a better position - Robb was always in a position of privilege.You're right. I consider her more bearable than Sansa at this point actually.It's already panned, man. 3 seasons ago.

I respect that you can have opinions and that we disagree amd I don't want to stymie brainstorming and tinfoiling.

But a wrong assessment is still wrong. It's factually and explicitly refuted in her character arc through numerous scenes that directly contradict your claim.

I'm all for people analysing characters, but if someone claims something absolutely wrong, I'll refute it. He did listen to what he had to say. He just didn't believe him.Well yes, that my point exactly. Jon was still killed by Northmen. I never said all and only Northmen. And of course we can be pedantic and say that the Watch is supposed to be apolitical, but what's the point of saying that when it's clearly not? Letting wildlings through the Wall is a political action. Letting Stannis sleep at Castle Black or deciding to kill him would have been a political action. Deciding to ride to Winterfell and save "Arya" was definitely a political action. >If Theon wasn't punished for his father's mistakes, and he just remained home on the Iron Islands, then he wouldn't have rebelled against Robb

Why do you think this? Theon only turned on Robb after visiting home and being pressured by his own family to turn on Robb. If Theon was with the Greyjoys his whole life... why would the Greyjoys hate for the Starks be any different?We know book Jon wouldn't do this considering book Jon literally didn't do it with the wildlings lol

>"As do I. So **I insisted upon hostages." I am not the trusting fool you take me for** … nor am I half wildling, no matter what you believe. **"One hundred boys between the ages of eight and sixteen. A son from each of their chiefs and captains, the rest chosen by lot. The boys will serve as pages and squires, freeing our own men for other duties. Some may choose to take the black one day. Queerer things have happened. The rest will stand hostage for the loyalty of their sires."**

>The northmen glanced at one another. **"Hostages," mused The Norrey. "Tormund has agreed to this?"**

>**It was that, or watch his people die. "My blood price, he called it," said Jon Snow, "but he will pay."**

>**"Aye, and why not?"** Old Flint stomped his cane against the ice. **"Wards, we always called them, when Winterfell demanded boys of us, but they were hostages, and none the worse for it."**

>**"None but them whose sires displeased the Kings o' Winter," said The Norrey. "Those came home shorter by a head. So you tell me, boy … if these wildling friends o' yours prove false, do you have the belly to do what needs be done?"**

>**Ask Janos Slynt. "Tormund Giantsbane knows better than to try me. I may seem a green boy in your eyes, Lord Norrey, but I am still a son of Eddard Stark."**

And as you can see, Lords Flint and Norrey even like that notion, and it's what got them to accept that Jon would be letting the wildings through: that he had something over on them to ensure their loyalty.Sure John was an idiot. But perhaps if Sansa hadn't spent the whole time berating them for needing more men and yet failing to mention the large well-equipped army she had waiting to call on the outcome might have been different. Not telling her side about the Vale was about the stupidest thing to have done and John and her both needlessly got their army annihilated. The Starks are basically a good-hearted family of morons. Portraying Sansa as some genius because she had little finger bail her out while men pledged to her banner died for her needlessly is laughable in my opinion.Fuck it I'm leaving it lolAll anti-Catelyn arguments are the same, and are stupid for the same reasons. These "analysts" don't understand information asymmetry, or even the basic concept of character perspective. They hold Catelyn to a completely different standard while feigning objectivity. The video is worthless, clickbaity bullshit. I'm guessing the rest of the channel's content is similar.> God damn it Robb, if you had just listened to your mother and kept your dick in your pants

Theon's dick would still be in his pants Yeah but she was hot. Can't really blame the guy *that* much.Yeah but I would've liked to read that from Ned or Cat's pov, that would've been an interesting little side note. Deserving can be a tricky word.  

Bringing him back was a necessity because only he could do the things set before him.  Does that mean he deserves to come back? Hard to say.  Yep. Jon learnt the more cynical life lessons, and even though Robb was made to look a better swordsman early on, it seems Jon became better overall through experience.I actually don't get all the Sansa hate right now. I don't think I perceive her the same way a lot of others on this sub seem to. But that's just it, we both think differently. You believe you are right. I don't think you're right or wrong, nor do I think I'm right or wrong; I think they're all opinions. I don't think there is a right or wrong, while you do. That's where we differ. 

We have interpreted events and phrases in her arc differently. You accept your interpretations as fact. I think facts are open to interpretation.

You believe the Hound is off her list, while I do not.
- To me, just because she hasn't been repeating this list out loud recently, doesn't mean it no longer exists.
- For example, I keep a list of people to never hire in my head; just because I stopped saying it aloud to myself, doesn't necessarily mean it doesn't exist.
- This doesn't mean you're wrong, but it doesn't necessarily mean I'm wrong, either. 

To me, because she left it off once, doesn't mean it's permanently off her list. We have yet to see her repeat this list again and leave The Hound off. 
- It could mean what you say, and I would actually appreciate that if it were true. But I'm not convinced of this yet. 

She did say The Hound's name during her assassin's training game. This is open to interpretation to me.
- I think she starts to have conflicting feelings, but to me, that doesn't mean he is off her list. She said his name.

The REAL question to me is whether Arya will operate in a black and white or grey world. She could be someone that despite conflicting feelings, because she doesn't understand or accept the grey areas in life, chooses to execute anyway.
- Her later actions will tell me if she has a list or not, or if she no longer needs one.
- Not having a list anymore or if she does, facing the Hound a final time and deciding to take him off it, would be momentous character growth. 

Perhaps you think this has already happened. I have reservations. We can agree to disagree on this. The last one doesn't belong on that list, the Night's Watch mutinied in protest and even now are not part of that expedition, Edd runs the wallNot in the booksI think it was in ADWD that Alys Karstark tells Jon that her dad wanted her to 'impress' Robb in some gathering years ago. I don't think Robb would have had a hard time to find a girl he likes in 5 years when most of them were practically throwing themselves at him. My hatred of Sansa comes from the drama that feels as if it's being shoved down our throats. It doesn't feel natural, it feels force-fed. She claims to have learned so much from Cersei, has no respect whatsoever for Jon's decisions, then calls him a good ruler. She's so blinded by vengeance that it's affecting her loyalty to her home and family. She's playing at being sneaky and ruthless but she's still a child inside.[removed]Do you "agree to disagree" that she declined to kill him in the season 4 finale? Because that would be wrong.Jeyne was hot...but so was Roslin.You're right, that was a different situation entirely.Right but I was more confused why Ned didn't have someone already picked out. Rob was probably the 2nd best bachelor behind Joffery and Ned could've easily had a great match for Rob and the NorthWell duh. She has learned so much from Cersei...It's fucking Cersei. She's an idiot. Now they're both idiots.One disagreement doesn't meant she has no respect for Jon. I think just because she does not kill him then does not definitively mean she will not kill him ever. This is my point throughout my comments. Her not killing the Hound is not a certainty or given, simply because she is developing conflicting feelings towards him. I would need to see further repeated actions of this.
 
Hound may still be on her kill list, or as some believe, he may not. "Facts" are open to interpretation--and if they weren't, we wouldn't have a court of law today and would live under an autocracy. 

If GOT has shown us anything, it's this: not yet doesn't mean not ever. Not now doesn't mean never.
- Some things are not finished yet or so easily.
- People come back from the dead, while some people die forever.
- Some people may take time to kill someone, while some may not.
- Some people turn a leaf, and some don't. The 

If you read all my comments, my view is consistent: I agree to disagree with any conflicting opinion. That is how I approach this forum and real life. There is always room for an alternate view and respecting others, so long as it does not significantly harm others. That is my opinion, and it's ok if you do not agree. "was she hot tho"


"nah"


"then what the hell man"Hell, maybe they did have a few ideas and it just never got mentioned, doubt it, but maybeI can't believe I didn't think of it that way.She's continuously showed her disregard for respect by interrupting him multiple times in front of a full room of Northern and Vale leadership. She's claimed not to know how to win a battle, yet she's berated Jon about doing something, only fails to have any ideas about it. She's hot-headed and thinks she's smarter than she really is.>I think just because she does not kill him then does not definitively mean she will not kill him ever.

This sounds like fluff to me. Of course her not killing him is does not mean she will definitely not kill him ever. There is no 100% guarantee of anything in this world and making a claim like that is absolutely pointless. Why hold an opinion if you will fall back on the safest and most unassertive position possible?

>I agree to disagree with any conflicting opinion.

There is no conflicting opinion to be had. It is pretty clear that based on what was shown, Arya has no intentions of killing the Hound. /u/Honztastic provided excellent examples to support this claim. Your counter-point however is just basically *"nothing is 100% ever certain."*. I mean at that point...what's the purpose of even having an opinion? If Arya wanted the hound dead, he'd be dead when she had the chance or he'd be on her list now. There's really not much wiggle room to think otherwise.

>For example, TV Robb is a political and strategic moron who always goes small picture

Now here's one that you could argue is actually a controversial statement. Yes Robb made some very idiotic(childish?) political mistakes. Military strategy however, he was pretty damn far from being idiotic. This green boy was undefeated on the battlefield specifically from his understanding of the bigger picture when it came to strategy. He just had a poor grasp of strategy outside of battle.Tyrion is not a Targaryen.Tyrion will be Targ. It is known.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Or we're being shown how shitty the life of a maester-in-training can be, how thankless a life of service could be. Nasty food, chamberpots, menial tasks, roughspun clothes. It just sucks! But those books. 😍> At one point, it is visually implied that the maesters are eating their own feces, as the contents of their chamber pots and the contents of their dinner bowls increasingly look similar

i don't think that's the implication. the implication is that bowls of brown look like shit and if you're not looking too closely at the scene (like me, getting ready to hurl), you might confuse the two.

I think this is interesting and it didn't occur to me one bit.[deleted]
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Seeing as you weren't looking too closely, how would you actually know? I watched the entire thing and I thought it was too long to be just a poop joke and as the scene goes on the food and waste starta looking more and more the same. Why waste so much time on a poop joke? I think OP has a good point and I think this scene is doing double doody.I'd have expected, given your user name, it may have occurred to you...a couple of years? if that much time passed, everyone would be a wight.I wonder if most/many people just took it at face value; like the showrunners just decided to do some scatological humor. I thought it was repulsive, so I hope it was in service of something more poignant.This, exactly. Poop jokes in *MY* game of thrones? It's gotta be in service to something.It's just a shitty username.  Shits no jokeOh, you.How the hell does Euron get Sansa. She's at Winterfell, which is inland, she isn't going to be leaving any time soon, because she finally got home and there really isn't anywhere she needs to go. Euron understands that the strength of the north and the Vale are all in Winterfell, and that on top of that, ironborn suck at land battles. He is going to play to his strengths, not make the same stupid mistake that Theon made. My first thought is that he'd make a play for capturing Tyrion, but that would be quite a feat. After reading these comments I think I agree with those who think it will be the Sands. They all deserve to die just for the bad poosy line anyway, and their death wouldn't affect the endgame the way killing Tyrion would.Nah that won't happen. They foreshadowed what's going to happen during the conversation in the throne room. Euron is going to burn Dany's fleet anchored at Dragonstone. Remember how Jaime mentioned Euron burned the Lannister fleet during the last Rebellion? Seems like it'd be a waste to bring that up and not have Euron do the same to Dany. Ellaria Sand and the Sand Snakes.  Ellaria murdered her daughter and allied with Daenerys, she has to be the front runner.  If he proposes marriage in exchange for the Sand Snakes, Cersei is going to accept.  And Euron isn't foolish enough to let him be cuckolded by Jaime, so it sets up some real drama going forward.  The trailers for the season show a naval battle of some sort. I am guessing Yara's forces lose and the Sands were with them and get caught then. So either the Sand or Yara would make the most sense from a show perspective. You do have good ideas though, we will see what happens! HypedBets are on the SandsSome comments on the other proposed gifts:

1. A victory. He might just bring a victory to Cersei. Either the Iron Islands, or The Reach. I don't find The Reach to be likely, given The Ironborn are a naval force; an armada. The Reach has the largest land army in Westeros.
2. Yara. A victory over the Iron Fleet, and the capture of Yara. Though boring, I could see this being the more likely option. One of the reasons I like Sansa more is because of the shock factor. Defeating and capturing Yara just isn't that shocking, and GoT needs the shock factor.
3. A dragon. I like this a lot. In the books, Euron has an horn called the Dragonbinder, which could be brought in the show as well. I don't find this to be likely though.
4. Tyrion. Euron gets convinced to join Dany, and tricks Cersei by bringing her Tyrion, only for him to kill her. This fulfills Maggy's prophecy, though not in the cool twist where Jaime is the one to kill her. Tyrion doesn't make much sense, though, if it's all a trick. If it's not, Tyrion makes some sense (perhaps he defeats the Iron Fleet and captures Tyrion?). Tyrion is now Hand though, and not a participant in the battles, so I don't see this as that likely. I think his plot armor is too strong, too. And if he was captured, I don't think he could escape. He's already done that with the help of Jaime. Wouldn't make much sense for it to happen again.
5. Sand Snakes. Brings them into the fold again, and though not particularly impactful, Cersei does hate them, so it's not unreasonable. However, Dorne has a large army, and is now allied with House Tyrell, so it would be an impossible battle for the Euron to win.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*As I said in another comment, I think Sansa could still make sense, as the new Stark-Arryn alliance may venture south to King's Landing. On the way, they would likely go through Moat Cailin, which is situated near the sea. It is here that I think Sansa would be captured, or killed.
But after reading these comments - specifically the ones about Ellaria being with Yara's fleet, I'm fairly sold on that idea. I've stayed away from the trailers, so I wasn't aware of that. From my perspective (i.e., without Ellaria being with Yara), it would be an impossible feat getting Euron to them. Sansa seemed difficult, but also much more compelling for the reasons I listed. How do you think they would be captured by Euron though? He commands an armada, and though the reavers could dock, how would Euron get to the Snakes, who rule Dorne and are allied with The Reach? Seems much more likely that Euron would win a decisive naval battle. This is why Yara is likely. However, I think Sansa could still make sense, as the new Stark-Arryn alliance may venture south to King's Landing. On the way, they would likely go through Moat Cailin, which is situated near the sea. It is here that I think Sansa would be captured, or killed. The Southern alliance of Dorne and the Tyrells seems harder to defeat than the much smaller alliance of The Vale and the North; while the Vale and The Reach have comparable forces, I believe Dorne outnumbers the Northern alliance. But given the location of Dorne and the Reach, it might be more plausible to launch an attack on The Northern alliance.Hopefully it's Sansa. I've been waiting for her death since season 1An ironborn is always going to fare better during a naval attack than invading the north during winterI can't stand Sansa's voice, I'd love to never have to hear it again, I don't know if its the accent or what. The other English actors don't bother me though. I seriously doubt she'll die, it'll most likely be Ellaria that Euron captures some how.Yeah, it sounds a little forced and exaggerated.
 As for the gift, book spoilers: it might be that dragon taming horn. Albeit I highly doubt that it even exists in the show.  This time I even have a GoT-related [picture of me](http://i.imgur.com/84YBiX8.jpg)! Okay, this sounds fun. 
http://imgur.com/a/TQIprTaken *just now*

http://imgur.com/f8sXyll

I love these postshttps://imgur.com/a/RkUJ6
I'm 6'7". Go to town. [Me](http://imgur.com/a/LZBZe) like a week ago on a cardboard chair :D[Do your worst](https://imgur.com/gallery/PJW5q)Okay, I'll shoot. Making a new throwaway to avoid anyone I know finding my real account though. [Good luck finding a character that I match at all.](http://i.imgur.com/yoI1upNr.jpg)Here goes nothing:

http://i.imgur.com/lIrPtFRl.jpg

http://i.imgur.com/ZvHwe2Pl.jpghttps://imgur.com/gallery/QW9HOhttp://imgur.com/Bse9KLf

🤷🏻‍♂️
Ooh, I love these!

Here's me: http://i.imgur.com/HmrwLCD.jpg

And here's my direwolf: http://i.imgur.com/dYKkEts.jpgA little late, but I might as well try it https://imgur.com/gallery/AEVy7[deleted]Let's give this a shot: https://imgur.com/gallery/3RZzyThis sounds like good fun!

[Pay no attention to the weapons from a galaxy far, far away!] (http://imgur.com/a/ySC2f)Well, hit me with your best shot. 

http://imgur.com/dWXZyzQ[This sounds interesting lol](https://imgur.com/a/vrpav)    

Edit: well that album quality sucks, uploaded from mobile while at work and apparently failed miserably[Im wary but definitely want to know what house I'd belong to](https://imgur.com/a/AOZlq)


Edit: My apologies to those people that could not handle seeing my bare shoulders



[This sounds like fun.](http://imgur.com/on939HA)[reddit thinks i'm a bot--i'm not](http://imgur.com/h4TotU4)I'll go first, [take your very best shot on this two-year-old picture](http://imgur.com/a/laKpc) Greyjoy, maybe?Wex. SmallJon Umber. BenjenMyranda Royce!Ramsay Snow. The first guy that sam meets at the citadelSamwell Tarly Edmure Tully. Yung BericIf Oberyn had a male bastard they would look like you.You look like early Jon Snow more than the current Jon Snow looks like early Jon Snow.Slow (much) LorasAlfie Allen. Cleos Frey. Young Barristan Selmy and Ashara Dayne. Bob Snow. I'm kinda seeing a younger Bobby BLike a cousin of Margaery Tyrell.  The beard says Wildling to me.Sam, obviously. I see Brotherhood Without Banners.If your hair was longer, you'd make a great Edd Tollet in my opinion. Dickon Tarly, if you mash the old one and the new one together. Your face+Blonde hair is how I pictured Gerris Drinkwater in my head.Possibly a young wildling? Definitely get a Northern vibe from youYou look like how I imagined Alys Karstark in the books, not the show version thoughYou look like Walder Frey took you to wife. I think Alla Tyrell. You're for sure lookin like a Tyrell to me.Alys KarstarkSand snake, or maybe Arianne MartellMirri Maz Duur if she had been dealt a different lot in life and had become a cunning and confident Red Priestess serving the Lord of Light instead of exacting revenge on our Mother of DragonsDave Grohl cameo!Probably the dude Ygritte lost her virginity to. 'Kissed by Fire, but weak'Jon Connington when he was younger.Lannister Soldier, good at singing.Dude... Edmure Tully. (from the books)AlfieTormunds youngest son or Ygritte's big brother. Definitely get some free folk vibe.You must mean Ramsay Bolton, trueborn Lord of Winterfell.I'm like 170lbs though, man. That's rough lmao. Makes sense to me. Rickon if he had zagged...and had grown into said beardThankfully I can swing a bat better than Tarly can swing a sword :^)I like that. The Ned is my favorite character so I would definitely continue following his orders and the spirit of what he intended after his death This is my favorite so far Also very interesting Interesting!I hope I don't look that depressed!I'm splitting the difference between the two of you commenters. My immediate reaction was Alys Karstark mixed with a Tyrell*I will not scream*Red Ronnet. LmaoooooI'll always take a Stark as a compliment. Very Samwell. Lol I do what I can, ser. Lol I immediately thought Tarly tooI watched last night's episode with 2 chemists (in addition to other folks). When Sam said "147" I said, "Units!" And one of the chemists said, "Right? What unit is that in, Samwell?! That's bad science!"> I have had trouble finding out how much the liver of an alcoholic would weigh. 

I gotchu, fam.

A good friend of mine cuts dead people open for a living, and she has informed me:
> Early alco:
> 1.5 - 2.5kg

> Late end stage cirrhosis:
> Maybe <1kgI had a similar thought, but he seemed very flippant about the entire thing..I am a chemist. The lack of units bothered me quite a bit. Excellent.NICE. That's super helpful. And my math (I think) might just work.Wait, Sam or the maester? I'm an engineer, and I was surprisingly okay with the lack of units. If I ask someone "how long til the bus gets here?" and they simple say "15", I'm gonna confidently assume they mean 15 minutes, not hours or seconds, or meters.I'm not a chemist, and the lack of units made me nervous.

That and the caster wheels on Sam's service cart.
http://phswire.com/wire/the-history-of-casters/Both, but mainly SamWord!I believe theres some thing written by Septon Barth 

>"[dragons are]...but now one and now the other, as changeable as flame"Maester Aemon says that dragons can switch sex.Dragons are hermaphroditic, so they could lay more eggs. Damn frog DNAWinter has come and everyone is preparing for war. It's not exactly party time in Westeros.

However, just to clarify, Dany's dress had a sheen of red on the front- didn't really see it til she was in the bright sun on shore. I'm assuming subtle Targ sigil.
I've noticed it too, and it's really annoying me. If I see Melisandre, the red priestess, sporting black robes, I'm gonna bust a vein.Winter has come. That's already been shown. Remember when Stannis and co. were at the Wall? Melisandre was all gothed out then.I think they just muted colors in post-production.Maybe so. She was just so vivid in dark-ass Dragonstone in season 1.I definitely hoped that Cersei had decided to ally with the night king after seeing the trailersSome cool scenes for sure, but also some parts I didn't really enjoy. Sam finding a book in the restricted section, telling him there is obsidian at Dragonstone, for example. Doesn't Jon already know that? Doesn't everyone know that? Stannis has even said he would start mining it!

Also, Jon and Sansa's "conflict" seems very forced to me, and I would get a bit disappointed if it becomes an important part of that storyline.

And finally, how did Euron get his fleet? He has been on an island *without trees* for five episodes, and suddenly he has actually built a thousand ships. That should take years, even if he had the materials needed.My overall impression from every episode of this show is how short it makes an hour feel. This is truly one of the only shows I can watch without doing something else at the same time. But it's odd because it feels like a lot is happening while simultaneously nothing is happening. So I'm curious, why are people so angry about Ed Sheerans appearance? I thought it was a good scene. I thought it showed greatly the "common soldier" and how they feel/act. What the fuck was Ed Sheeran doing in an episode of Game of Thrones? 
What was Clegane's comment about a top-knot?
What was that ridiculous shit montage? 

So many little bits just felt so out of place. This episode came across really, really weak. Not sure why Sansa called out Jons move tbh. 

Joffrey rewarded those that followed him in s2/3 (can't remember exact season/episode) with property and short term rewards like Sansa suggested.

Jon did the opposite and he got compared to Joffrey...
Every detail about the Dragonstone scene was retarded. Really? Stannis is at war with the whole realm, but leaves this strategically positioned, well defendable keep abandoned up to the last man? Really, nobody claimed it? Really, nobody thought, fuck, Dany is coming, maybe we shouldn't leave Dragonstone just sitting there waiting for her to take it as a foothold in Westeros? Also Dany's way of going in first to check out the suspisciously abandoned keep along with all her leaders and like 2 guards was just... I don't even know.

The scene with Sandor and the fire was cool. I liked it a lot.

The shot of the army of dead marching with the giants was one of the most epic things I have seen in the show so far.

Cersei just forgetting about Tommen and calling him a traitor is teen fan fic level out of character and cringeworthily bad writing.
Euron's fleet looked badass, but the ridiculous nature of it existing kind of ruins it for me a little. Also Euron looked like a Hell's Angel.

Sansa should know better than to act the way she did during Jon's speech, and Lyanna Mormont is always gonna be a massive pain in the ass, but I liked the scene in winterfel nonetheless.

Sam's scene was okay, and Jorah came as a cool surprise and makes sense to me from his pov. Except the grabbing Sam's arm part. I wonder who the fuck would let him onto their boat tho.

The scene with Ed Sheeran was pretty nice too. It was nice to see a less one-sided portrayel of the people of Westeros for once.

Overall I liked the episode quite a bit. It didn't really start off the season too slow for me, as first episodes often do. It had some meat to it itself rather than just setting up the developments for the second episode. The show's shallow and illogical writing hasn't improved at all, but I had less trouble accepting it this season so far. I guess I've had time to process it though. One thing is undeniable, Grrm leaving the project has been a massive loss to the show. D&D have done good work on it, but they aren't story crafters.     Someone may have pointed this out but Cersei did not name Littlefinger nor Varys when she talked about her enemies.I would have loved if the episode ended back at Winterfell where the old Bolton maester comes to Jon and Salsa and says, "there's been another raven, this time from the Wall."Had the pleasure to watch it in a huge cinema in Berlin, because I won ticket from rbtv/HBO/Sky. Daaamn that was so sick. Really enjoyable episode. Great start to the new season. They got a shit ton of places into that hour and caught up well on every storyline they included.Does anyone else think the nice Lannister troops who appeared in this episode will reappear in the "2nd Field of Fire" battle episode? How did the two enormous navies not run into each other at the mouth of Blackwater Bay?  I can handle Edmure being dealt with off screen, but the battle that didn't happen just doesn't make sense.  Are the difference scenes weeks apart?

edit: spellingI am fairly confident greyjoy will hunt and kill one of the dragons with a special dragon hunting boat he probably learned how to make in some corner of the globe..

and the head of the dragon will be the "present" 

this would immediately solve the missing dragon character..

leaving 2 dragons for the 2 confirmed dragonsDisappointed with the opening scene with Arya. I felt I could get past her killing Frey, that was always coming but the logistics behind killing him and his two sons and then every family member of standing without anyone being even the slightest bit suspicious was just too much lazy writing for me. 

Winter came and so did II'm surprised at how little I enjoyed that episode. Ed Sheeran can add 'murder' to his list of many talents. What an inappropriate vocal style for the show and what a terrible performance. Symon's song deserved better. Jim Broadbent was amazing as always. They really should reserve the limited acting roles for actors, there are enough of them out there - using shit singers just pulled me right out of the episode and I never got back into it. Script needed about five rewrites. Arya has become a parody character, Maisie is such a wonderful actor it's a shame they've reduced her to this ninja nonsense.Disappointing that an assassin spent so long in the company of Ed Sheeran without killing him.I don't know if its just Preston Jacobs getting to me, but I was ultimately left feeling a bit dissapointed again, and I feel my expectations were fairly grounded... 

I really dislike how Arya is basically just a wizard now. I am completely unable to suspend my suspension of disbelief with her and I've just lost all interest. She is overpowered on some other level and doesn't even seem to be following the logic of the world itself anymore.

And why wasn't Dragonstone defended by anyone? Not a single man left holding it? Not even a single lannister troop decided it was worth taking this massive fortress back? They could have had some 20 dudes surrender when the dragons flew over but instead they picked the illogical choice and the scene suffered and my suspension of disbelief was once again shattered into a thousand pieces, ironically ending up with a bad first impression and leaving off just confirming said impression.

I liked The BwB scenes with the hound and The Citadel was fun (minus the shit-montage). The first 10 seconds of the Dragonstone scenic shot was nice looking I guess...

I feel like I'm starting to regret reading the books after the last season, if only because its made me realize how shallow and poorly crafted the show has become after what I originally considered the best TV show of all time (in my opinion) by a good margin.Maybe arya is the valonqar prophesied to kill cersei? I mean, she is going to king's landing with the explicit goal to kill cersei. I don't remember the exact quote, but maester aemon mentioned to Sam that valyrian doesn't differentiate between males and females (something about they were all looking for a prince that was promised, but it's totally a princess/dany because the translation was off.) Maybe valonqar translated literally means more like younger sibling instead of little brother, and arya is one of the youngest of the stark siblings! 


It's pretty unlikely, and I would honestly rather Jamie do it, but I wouldn't completely hate it if arya is able to cross cersei off her list. So Sam works in the Shitadel now, right?

Seriously, the Maesters need to get some fiber in their diets. No one can be the memories of the world when they've got the runsI was kinda hoping Cersei had decided to ally with the Night King when she told Jaime she received a marriage proposal.Does anyone else get the impression that the Hound is Azor Ahai?

I was thinking it when he was telling Beric that he wasn't anything special, so why would he be chosen to come back to life? The Hound has been 'reborn' in fire twice. Once he was burned by his brother, which apparently shaped who he was as a person. The second time he was actually reborn in salt and smoke when he made the decision to abandon the Lannisters as the sea was on fire during the Battle of the Blackwater.

I think Beric isn't anything special himself, but both him and Thoros are there to turn the Hound over to the side of the Lord of Light, cause him to get over his fear of fire, and he'll eventually end up wielding Beric's flaming sword. That's why Beric keeps coming back, because his job is to help the Hound become Azor Ahai.I hope they don't carry on with this dumbed down "explain all" approach. 

Super disappointing episode. Seriously, what happens next to Edmure Tully? Wasn't he back in the dungeons at the Twins? Does Arya save him? Or should we presume him to be dead? 

> Jaime offers to reunite him with his wife and son and have him live out his days in gentle imprisonment as a hostage at Casterly Rock.

But then this happens -

> Walder Frey later mentions that Edmure is back in a cell, although he has no plans to kill him as "killing [his] son by law would not be right." After the celebration, however, Walder is murdered by Edmure's niece Arya Stark.No mention of Dragonbinder?When the iron fleet arrived at the red keep I was hoping, and halfway expecting, the camera to pan to the helm of the lead ship and we'd see a tall ironborn man with a large axe and a Kraken helm...Its so far removed from the books its *carry on westeros* but i enjoyed it for the schlocky soap operait is[Kind of embarrassed how much time I spent on this, but it could have been way more...](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uyN-b-tuNNM)Probably needed a bit more Ed Sheeran where's ghost though? Is he still at the wall? if so, Bran has a new friend!!!May be this is too late to ask, but why isn't anyone in the North talking about the fact that Jon Snow was resurrected?So the opening disclaimers said "nudity" yet it turned out to be a naked old dead man. Great. Thought it was pretty dull and suffers from all the same issues as the last few seasons. Hardly any time spent with each character meaning there's glacial plot and character development until the last few episodes where they do it all in a pseudo-red wedding.

I'll watch it until the end because I'm committed now but if GoT had started at this quality level I doubt it'd reached seven seasons.**Overall/TLDR**

Strong opening episode, that laid the ground-work for the rest of season. Obviously we've only got 7 episodes this time, so we can probably only spend one (maybe one and half?) episodes on set-up. I think my favourite/most memorable scene(s) was the Hound discovering that series continuity stinks :)

**Arya**

Wow, I wonder if book-Arya will re-enter Westerosi politics with such a bang?! I know that some sort of Frey *Red Wedding2.0* has been theorised but to see it happen so rapidly and *simply* was a surprise. I also like how the Lannister troops Arya ran into weren't yet another bunch of *villains in the woods*^TM; they were just ordinary squaddies doing their duty and trying to get home alive (scene may have been a little long though). Also, we got (what I think was) our first reference to the Dragonpit in this scene...so perhaps a set-up for later in the season? Also, Arya's on her way to say Hi to Cersei...can't wait :)

**Daenerys/Tyrion**

I thought this scene(s) was good overall but it perhaps went on a little longer for what it should have been. We had:

* long-shot of Dany walking on the beach
* long-shot of Dany walking to the gate
* long-shot of Dany walking up the hill
* long-shot of Dany walking into the throne room
* long-shot of Dany walking round the *map-table* room

I think it might have been stronger if we'd have kept the beach scene (when she picks up the sand etc) then more of a montage up to the final map room moments...

**The Hound**

This may have been the best scene in the episode, it was certainly one of the darkest, albeit by implication. What I mean is, although we've had plenty of brutal scenes over the years, here we have something which is really unpleasant but almost entirely off-screen...and a *nice* call back to a minor scene years ago. 

I mean, several seasons ago the Hound steals some food from some one-note/episode characters/peasants, on the grounds that... 

>'they can't protect themselves, they're dead already, so we might as well take their food' (The Hound to Arya)

The Hound clearly believed this cold logic and probably hasn't thought about them since but now destiny/R'hollor/plot convenience has shown him the results of his actions.

He stole their food, which lead to them starving and the Dad basically killing his daughter before cradling her in his arms and ending it all...pretty heartbreaking and the Hound see's it as such (I also like how the Hound seemed to be rushing to bury them as if he was desperate to blot out what he'd done).

**Euron-Cersei**

Still having mixed feelings about show-Euron but then again book-Euron is a little underwhelming too (excluding the sample chapters). However, in some respects that might work well, with the TV-character having to prove himself to us (and Cersei) by finding Cersei's gift.

Speaking of the gift, Euron has to do something suitable impressive to win Cersei over but not something so impressive that Cersei doesn't need him anymore...so:

* **ship battle/harbour raid?** Euron may engage Dany's fleet and destroy enough of her ships to make landing her troops more problematic?

* **kidnapping?** Grab one of the main *enemy* characters? Given we've only got 7 episodes, I doubt it would be e.g. Tyrion/Dany (outside chance of Tyrion?) but maybe Yara/Theon could be captured?

* **kill a dragon?** Unlikely but if he could do it that would make an amazing gift...

* **capture an enemy stronghold?** Given that Euron is in the capital, it seems likely his principle focus will be Dany but we're not sure of her force's exact dispositions. Although it's unlikely that Euron will recapture Dragonstone castle perhaps there is a port on the Island he could capture and fortify (unlikely but possible)...assuming he doesn't turn his attention to the e.g. Dornish (a raid on Sunspear?)

Unless of course he's planning to kill off Theon/Yara then switch over to the Targaryen cause as the 'last Greyjoy standing'...

**Samwell**

A series of unpleasant images/montages helped capture Sam's drudgery pretty well and I like how Jim Broadbent thinks Sam is probably telling the truth but still won't let him into the restricted section of the ~~Hogwarts~~ Citadel library. Overall, I have mixed feeling about Sam having to travel all this way just to pick up a book (why not just put it in the Castle Black library; could argue the same for book-Sam as well) but the scenes themselves are good and I'll hopefully be proved wrong and we'll get a good payoff. 

Also, Jorah made it to Westeros before Dany?! Why didn't he go to Asshai; surely if anyone can cure Greyscale it's a bunch of creepy sorcerers and shadowbinders :)

sidenote: was the catspaw's dagger in Sam's book; one of the pictures looked a little like it?

**Jon/Sansa/Bran**

Didn't think there was a lot here to comment on as such but Sansa's...

>'you don't need the last word, I'll just assume it was something witty'
 (sansa to Littlefinger)

...was a chuckle worthy line. 

As to Jon's decision to return the 'betrayer's castles' I've seen people argue it either way:

* Jon is right about not collectively punishing the traitor's Houses
* but the Sansa's counter-argument would no doubt be 'but then people know they can betray you and win or lose, their families are still set for life'

In broader terms, it was interesting to see Sansa contradict Jon publicly; whether this was a deliberate choice opens up different possibilities. Sansa is clearly playing the game now, so whether she intends merely to guide Jon (her line about needing to be smarter than Ned/Robb was good) or is trying to establish herself as a rival power centre is interesting. It's probably the former but the fact the Littlefinger is still around suggests we may get some politicking within the Northern camp.

Not much on Bran in this episode but he's finally made it home;
could impact on Jon's right to the throne but he's unlikely to make a claim given he's now one with the ~~force~~ Weirwoodnet. Only other thing here was the vision of the Night King; we finally get Giant-wights!! Also, if Giants can become zombies, can (ice) dragons?!

**Overall/TLDR**

Strong opening episode, that laid the ground-work for the rest of season. Obviously we've only got 7 episodes this time, so we can probably only spend one (maybe one and half?) episodes on set-up. I think my favourite/most memorable scene(s) was the Hound discovering that series continuity stinks :)Pretty sure they set up these Lannister soldiers as good, humane people just to show how much of a vengeful person Arya has become ..

Also if she kills them, I'm afraid her path to auto-destruction will be on full throttle. Hope I'm wrong.* Not much happened I hope is not another season of early episodes unnecessarily building an explosion of events before the final two. 

* Anyone else spot the dagger on Sam's book?

* I don't care what anyone days, odd looking ginger guys are cute. Come at me Ed. Or on me. Whichever.


**EDIT**

* Cersei just imploded half of the city and the leader of the people. No consequences? No context? No reaction? Come the fuck on there should have been more of an aftermath than that.  Specially Tommens death, what's this 'oh he dead now' crap? She should be eating herself alive with guilt.


ugh the more I think of the episode the more frustrated I am. 

* ALMOST NOTHING HAPPENED

* UGH1) Lyanna's speech was quite cringy. Justification of why should girls participate in defence in medieval era should be that opposing army is overwhelmingly powerfull and there are no point of holding back. Instead, they went with "girl power" theme.

2) Sansa vs Jon was stupid too. In a situation when Jon was just proclaimed as the king, last thing you wanna do is to question him publicly. The point of the scene was to show that Sansa is smarter than Jon and he has to listen to her advices. Yet, imo, they failed. Even thou I think Sansa is smarter and Jon should listen, the fact that she questioned his decisions publicly was stupid. Also I think that Jon was totally right in that situation. What they point of punishing kids of traitors when there are armageddon coming? I mean they should have gave her a more valid argument, to show that she is smarter. 

3) Cercei and Jaime scene was awesome. 

4) Euron acted like an idiot. IMO, they tried to portray to him as a "charming" wild alfa-male. But you don't act like that infront of the queen. He could definitelly choose a better lines that didn't undermine him. Also his outfit is ridiculous.

5) Sam's scene about him throwing shit was waaay too long. Waste of screen time.

6) Arya joining Lannisters camp was a kinda dumb decision may be. Since imo they will obviosly try to rape her. Also her saying that she is going to kill the Queen was super stupid.

7) BWB scene was good. Yet Sandor's looking at fire scene was lame.

8) Danny at Dragonstone. WTF. Castle that was controlled by the enemy. It's a pretty big castle and could be filled with defending forces. Yet they let the Queen go first. Stupid.auto-mod told me to post this here. 

Jorah looks like he's getting near full blown greyscale and his placement at the Citadel with Sam at this particular time seems significant in the fight against the walkers. I suspect that weaponized greyscale will be used to fight the walkers in some fashion.Episode was surprisingly slow. I was hoping for more action, but besides first few minutes, there was nothing. I'm not saying that this was bad episode, but I had bigger expectations. Lyanna Mormont was taking names and it was just beautiful.

Ed Sheeran was not as terrible as it could have been and to be honest, it made sense - caught Arya up in a way that didn't involve exposition with a side of boobs for distraction. Did you notice how Sansa had her hair like Cersei from earlier seasons?Ahh episode one. Always a good chance to refresh and to Meet the characHOLY SHIT IS THAT WALDER FREY? BUT THEN IT MUST BE....AHHHHHHH Not sure why some people didn't like this Season opener? Thought it was comfortably better than the opener to Season 2, 5 & 6. Maybe not as good as 'Two Swords' of season 4, but not a million miles away. All in all a very solid episode!I expected a quicker opening episode given the short season, but certainly not the worst first episode we've seen.

Unexpected highlight? The scene involving Ed Sheeran and Arya was really lovely.
Was slightly shocked by Jorah being in OldTown, and I thought Dragonstone looked epic.

'Lets begin shall we'Ed sheeran scene was cringey as fuckNothing wrong with the scene itself, but Sheeran was an immersion-breaker. Made me go "ED SHEERAN WTF IS THAT ED SHEERAN" when I should have been focused on Arya and the momentIt took me out of the moment, so I didn't enjoy it for that reason. However, the scene itself was fine and I quite liked seeing Arya obviously contemplating the fact that these people may be Lannisters but aren't bad people. I think it'll bring about a bit of a crisis point for Arya later in the season. Because she was right. Jon has already fucked up with doing the honorable thing to the point of being killed. The only difference between him and Ned, and Robb is that he was brought back to life. Something tells me that there was a meta-reason that Sansa gave this advice, and we'll see it come back to bite Jon in the ass. > Every detail about the Dragonstone scene was retarded. Really? Stannis is at war with the whole realm, but leaves this strategically positioned, well defendable keep abandoned up to the last man? Really, nobody claimed it? Really, nobody thought, fuck, Dany is coming, maybe we shouldn't leave Dragonstone just sitting there waiting for her to take it as a foothold in Westeros? Also Dany's way of going in first to check out the suspisciously abandoned keep along with all her leaders and like 2 guards was just... I don't even know.

I saw someone post elsewhere that the advantages of Dragonstone were all lost on Cersei and the Lannisters. 
It's a great castle if you have a fleet, they haven't had one (in the show as far as I can tell) since the Battle of Blackwater. 
It is a great resource for dragonglass, Cersei don't care. 
Symbolic significance. Again, Cersei don't care. 
Whats with all the new outfits?  They hire the designer from the Matrix?  Everyone got cool new threads except Sam who got a shit stained  slab of burlap.   Speaking of Sam - how long before Clumsy McSidekick trips and knocks over a book rack and picks up the one hidden book in the Citadel that answers all the questions. I was waiting for that!   
Why didn't that happen? Unless everybody has teleporters, pretty much all scenes should be weeks, often months apart.I wrongly thought dragonstone was further north, my first thought after consulting a map was thisIt just reeked of pandering to fan sites.  How many posts have we read about Arya killing the Frey's.  It felt like a Tarantino movie, where everyone watching laughs and claps and hoots and hollars and looses their shit.  Really low effort scene. Ugh yes. They clearly just wanted a "fuck yeah Starks" scene for lowest common denominator viewers. Arya's transition into a cold killer should be tragic. Instead we're just supposed to cheer and not question where on her person she concealed 11 gallons of poison during her trip from Essos.I do love the Brotherhood though. I love the Brotherhood and I love the Hound, so I love that the show has given them a big role. I never liked Cat Stark and I was really quite embittered to lose Dondarrion to Stoneheart in the novels - so I do like where the show has differed in this regard. Their banter needed tightening up a little, same as last season, but even so - I could watch Beric, Thoros and Sandor chatting for seven hours straight and not be bored for a second.

How did the Hound know the family? Did he stay with them? Work for them? Did he rob them at some point? I'm trying to think but I can't remember.>I feel like I'm starting to regret reading the books after the last season, if only because its made me realize how shallow and poorly crafted the show has become after what I originally considered the best TV show of all time (in my opinion) by a good margin.

The show is far, far better than the books over the last few seasons, by default - the books don't exist!

The issue that the story is running into here is that the early seasons, specifically things after SoS, spiral wildly into a million directions. The plot explodes, the number of characters, settings, and cogs in the machine all explode. In order to reach a satisfying ending, there have to be some less satisfying intermittent steps, or you have to take a *ton* of time. 

Like, you could have Dany fight a small garrison on Dragonstone for which there's absolutely no suspense and no realistic threat she may lose, or you could just say "fuck it, this is uninteresting, let's just say it's abandoned and move on to more compelling drama". You could spend 15 minutes showing the machinations of how Arya managed to poison all the Freys, or you could say "fuck it, this is too detail-heavy, let's replace it with a character development scene where she grows emotionally instead."

Martin is running into these same trade offs as he's writing the books, absolutely no doubt. But where the show is making decisions "let's do the exposition here, let's cut it there" he refuses to, and as a result hasn't written a book in ten years. And the books he *has* written since SoS have struggled with pacing a lot more.Basically my feelings about dragonstone. Only thing you didn't mention yet is "Aight boys, we're here. I suggest queen with all the leaders go in first."Didn't stannis say they had to eat rats before Davos dropped them some onions. I had the same thoughts as you but is it really that surprising that a spot with no food is uninhabited. Completely agree about Dragonstone. No way Cersei would have it sitting there empty for the taking. I know Loras is dead in the show now, but any Lannister garrison could have been there holding down the fort. I thought that dragons are neither male or female and the Prince that was promised as a targ could be either. But valyrian does differentiate.shit goes in, shit goes out.

can't explain that.I'm assuming the bed pans contained both piss + poop. We don't see him with chamber pots, so it's just the one receptacle. So like Night's Queen but switching the genders?"Damn bitch, you cold!"

\- Night King, probablySo what you're saying is it's 100% CONFIRMEDBeric has always had a john the baptist vibe to me, making the way for another. At this point, I don't think Azor Ahai is one person. Too many people loosely meet the criteria.Wow - interesting thought process!I think at this point, it is pretty much set that Jon is Azor Ahai & the Prince who was Promised. 

The only other person who I think could remotely have a shot at the prophecy is Danny. Everyone else are supporting characters and haven't had enough Book or Screen time to be the savior. Who will be his Nissa Nissa? Sansa?Edmure? Didn't he go back to Riverrun and surrender it to the Freys/Lannisters?Last time we saw Edmure was at Riverrun, he entered the castle against the Blackfish's orders and surrendered to the Lannisters. Maybe we'll see him actually licking a Lannister soldier's boots next. RIP Brynden Tully.He's in the rowboat with Gendry and all the other abandoned plotlinesSeriously guys. I keep reading talk of Dragonbinder. It's not happening! The show isn't going to introduce anything like that at this point in the series. No horns, no kraken (in the literal sense), and no ice dragons or ice spiders.My bet is that that is Euron's gift for Cersei. I know they can't fit everything in, but they seem to have cut out some pretty critical storylines. I haven't seen anyone actually quantify why Ed Sheeran was "immersion-breaking" for so many fans, so I'll give my two-cents as someone who had high hopes, then was crushed.

When Arya says she hasn't heard the song, and asks about it, Sheeran almost stares at the camera and says "It's a new one.". That moment ruined it. Not Ed Sheeran. Not his acting, but that single line was like I could see the writers and director behind Sheeran's eyes going "HEE HEE LOOK IT'S ED SHEERAN WITH A TONGUE-AND-CHEEK COMMENT!"

Fucking ruined it.Why isn't Arya telling everyone about Beric? The Hound should be talking about it too. Seems like nobody is really that blown away.I guess nobody believes it. Although, I want to know why nobody blames him for deserting.He was stabbed during the nigth and his body was taken inside. Only his closest men saw him dead and then resurrected. Most of the night watch probably tought he just recovered from his injuries. Or do I remeber it wrong? "I heard the Night's Watch Lord Commander, Jon Snow, was stabbed to death and resurrected!"

"Bullshit."

"Yeah, actually now that I say it out loud it does sound like bullshit.  Didn't we just say a few years ago that King Robb could turn into a wolf and couldn't be killed?  And then he was totally killed and so was his wolf?  Lotta crazy stories in this war.  I'm sure *something* happened up north with Jon Snow but who knows the details, lots of shit goin' down these days."I completely agree! If they don't believe he truly died, then they must think he's a deserter of the night's watch, which is punishable by death..Because it was a plot device utilized to build hype and not a trigger for significant character development.It might not be common knowledge. A rumour may spread about it but most people would think it's bullshit.Few people outside the nights watch must know. And those in the nights watch who didn't take part in the stabbing probably assume he was just nursed back from the brink of death.Be careful what you wish. It could become true :^)They should stick with one or two plots every episode. Five minutes with each character doesn't work because it ruins any chance to immerse yourself in one setting.Can't please everybody > He stole their food, which lead to them starving and the Dad basically killing his daughter before cradling her in his arms and ending it all...pretty heartbreaking and the Hound see's it as such (I also like how the Hound seemed to be rushing to bury them as if he was desperate to blot out what he'd done).



What, did he met those peasants before? Because I am pretty sure they're already in the North since the Riverlands (where Arya is) is not even close to being that cold yet.> kill a dragon? Unlikely but if he could do it that would make an amazing gift...

I think he's gonna bring her a live one, using his magic horn that hasn't been revealed in the show yet (I don't think?). Imagine if Cersei is one of the heads of the dragon. That would feel very much like a GRRM style send up of fantasy tropes. 
I love that you referred to the arch maester as Jim broadbent - some actors are really quite recognisable!Would people follow The Cripple King in to war?

Euron's gift will probably be Dragonbinder.I feel like Sansa is in a weird spot at court. Is she speaking as an advisor to Jon, or is she speaking as the Lord of Winterfell? 

I feel absolutely no angst about her betraying Jon, she is loyal. However what weight is behind her words at court?If we can have wight horses, I'm pretty sure we can have wight dragonsI appreciate you.Tks, got some new insights that never crossed my mind.IMHO she is already gone.. was gone when she fed WF hunks o' sonmeat in a pie. They were there for the Ed Sheeran cameo. they didn't had any real reason to be there.>Also if she kills them, I'm afraid her path to auto-destruction will be on full throttle. Hope I'm wrong. 

She won't kill them. She made that decision before accepting food from them. Arya won't break guest rights.I think it will make Arya question some of the people that are on her kill list (Ilyn Payne, The Hound and The Mountain). It makes her realise that not everyone is acting by their own will. That will reduce the list down to Cersei (whom she'll not get the honour to kill), Melisandre, Beric and Thoros (she may spare Beric's and Thoros' lifes if she finds Gendry to be alive and well). It's possible that Melisandre will be the last person she'll kill.I think they set them there as a plot device for Arya to realize that while the Lannisters are her enemies, not all the men who fight for the Lannisters are necessarily bad people. Everyone has a liege lord> ugh the more I think of the episode the more frustrated I am.

Welcome to the dark side, my little feline friend

*cackles*> Cersei just imploded half of the city and the leader of the people. No consequences? No context? No reaction? Come the fuck on there should have been more of an aftermath than that. Specially Tommens death, what's this 'oh he dead now' crap? She should be eating herself alive with guilt.
> 

When Jon got the raven when talking to Sansa I expected a nice little '...what the fuck? Tommen? They're getting through monarchs like candles in Kings Landing'. but on reading she's queen, totally nonchalant. It didn't have to be a major thing but the king dying is worth a 'huh?'I think Joffrey's death broke her but also made her much more callus, emotionally. So Myrcella's death seemed to affect Cersei as well but not to the extent that Joffrey's death had. Cersei always saw Tommen as weak and too frail to rule as a true Lannister should. With strength and authority. Which was partly why she appointed herself Queen Regent. 

Cersei saw first hand how Tywin ruled plus his death helped mold Cersei into the emotionless robot who is becoming increasingly paranoid of everything and everyone.Yep, that looked exactly like "littlefinger's dagger". I really hope that's not some prop reuse, that would be just terrible.I'm sure if they were there, they saw the fleet approaching and decided to GTFO. >The point of the scene was to show that Sansa is smarter than Jon.

It was to show open dissent from Sansa to push the plot point of her trying to usurp Jon,  or at least littlefinger trying to get that to happen.I think we have almost perfectly opposite opinions! 8) Stannis is dead, he only left a small force to defend it. I doubt anyone if they were still there would fight dragons and army.Are you just gonna do whatever Automod tells you to?Interesting thought but how could  greyscale harm or impede the WW's in any significantly helpful way?

Not trolling just trying to imagine how it would even matter considering it takes so long to do serious damage pls there's the fact that their wight army is already just grisly undead anyway.What wss he doing at the citadel anyway? I'm foggy.Weaponized greyscale? Now that's a tinfoil that I haven't heard of yet. 

Go on. He's becoming a black walkersI suspect Jorah was dropped in to draw a line under his story. Time will tell I guess.>I suspect that weaponized greyscale will be used to fight the walkers in some fashion.

Please tell me this is a full theory? If not, please write it; it sounds awesome!YESI think they way they framed it so that it was like 'this is Ed Sheeran' and his wink wink lines 'here's a new one for all you folks at home' was exceptionally bad, immersion breaking, and closer to the sort of walk-ons celebs would do on 60s sitcoms [door-bell rings, door is answered and it's Celeb X, sustained applause from studio audience] than what GoT's trying to achieve.Well spotted. More foreshadowing?Probably more to do with the fact that Sophie is wearing a wig this year. 

Or it could be because she subconsciously is becoming like Cersei. IDFK. yes! and Dani is slowly dressing more and more like how they do in the Red Keep.. Sansa/Jon incest power couple incoming. Female hair fashion is not one of the main things I keep my eyes peeled for. Did you notice how Gilly had hair like Melisandre?I'm slow I didn't realise until he started describing the red wedding as 'butchering a pregnant woman' etc.But they showed the flashback of her killing him immediately before his scene so I don't know how you could not realise it's Arya and she's out to kill people on her list.  It took me way too long to realise it wasn't "last time on game of thrones"Were they trying to be sneaky about it being Arya? The second I saw Walder I said "ooooo girl Arya gonna kill some Freys"I liked it overall but there were some parts that felt very forced or were just disappointing to me.  By the way I speak only for myself.

1. I didn't really care for the opening Arya scene. I called it as soon as I saw Walder. I called the whole scene not in the way it happens but the gist of it. 

I said that she would poison them then Scooby-Doo reveal herself and give a big speech about how revenge and justice.

2. The Lyanna Mormon part of the first scene with Jon and Sansa. 

She tells of Robett Glover after he says he doesn't want to arm his granddaughter. Then Lyanna cuts him off and goes on a whole speech about how they're Mormonts are going to fight and Glover can't tell her differently. 

But the thing is Glover wasn't telling her that she and the other Mormont women couldn't fight. He was just objecting to having Glover women fight. He even tries to explain himself to Lyanna but she cuts him off and then gives her whole speech. 

I just feel like they put that in there to try and match her speech from last season about "answering the call". 

She even gives Jon a look afterwards that says "one sassy verbal smackdown delivered"

But those were both in the beginning. After that I thought the episode was pretty good. Especially the Hound storyline. 

The scene with him and Thoros digging a grave together in the dark and snow was strangely beautiful. 

Because an entire house gets slaughtered like pigs, and Arya takes off her mask to an empty hall, and there is no soldier that attacks her, no guard that stops here, nobody even screams for help in a place that must have had at least 100 soldiers if every Frey brought a couple just to travel safe in perilous times as these are.

It's bullshit.It was boring af. Considering there's only 7 episodes I was expecting them to be packed. 

I was really looking forward to seeing Cercei's reaction to indirectly killing her own son too, but they just acted like it didn't happen. 

EDIT: "Tell us why you didn't like the episode so we can all downvote you!"I thought the directing was exceptionally good. idk how many episodes Jeremy Podeswa is getting this season but I hope it's quite a few.It wasn't bad, just with so few episodes left and with the longer wait I think people expected more of a bang in the premiere. I would guess it's because in comparison to what is to come (dragons, huge battles, stark reunions), this episode contained basically none of that. It's all setup, which isn't necessarily bad as it is the first episode of the season.I was expecting more because there's fewer episodes overall, so they presumably need to push the plot along quickerI thought the scene was fine, and it will provide a logical catalyst to send Arya home, instead of Kings Landing. Arya just pulled off one of the most heinous acts a single individual has pulled off in the entire series. She effectively wiped out the Freys, except for whoever is at Riverrun. This scene was meant to balance her humanity. Intercutting shots of her scoping out their weapons with shots of her chumming it up was just fine. The guy from this is England was good in it thoughThey have the best show on TV and they ruin it by doing things like this that add nothingThe phrase "cringey as fuck," is cringey as fuck.

I had no idea who he was until I got online and started reading comments like this. I had to look him up on YouTube to realize he sang that one song. 

The scene was fine. He sang a couple lines *from the books* and had like one more line. Less than 30 seconds screen time, and people are freaking out. Maisey has the hots for him, and got him a scene. Big freaking deal.

I don't remember people freaking tf out when Coldplay were the musicians at the Red Wedding. Really dislike the cameo. Feels like a sellout, and I know HBO doesn't have the financial incentive. :/ Really made me think the series is going down the tubes.I was more excited about the other Lannister soldier who was the little kid in This Is England, such an awesome movie.I know nothing about him other than the fact that he's famous. I had zero problems with it whatsoever. I hope you're not American, cause that would confirm a bias I have that you find half the things you come across as "cringey". Nothing to do with the post but: Awkwardness is human nature, embrace it.I know Ed Sheeran is a famous singer but I don't know his face. I googled him but I don't remember who he was in the episode. I think one of the lannister soldiers Arya met? If that's it, what was cringey about it? I really liked that sceneWhy? Hands of Gold is a song from the books and it was fine, even though he sounds a bit too good, obviously. Apart from that he had one line and the rest of the dialogue was alright. I thought it was a nice scene with a purpose. It's pretty remarkable that if you have no idea who Ed Sheeran is, like me, it comes across as a pretty decent scene. It was a welcome refresher from Arya just going on an endless murder rampage.I didn't know that was Ed Sheeran until after I saw the episode and it didn't come across as cringey at all to me. The only thing that was off to me was that he was singing a song that Tyrion had somebody minced to make sure it was never sung again.  I was half petrified that damn Galway Girl melody would start up.

"He played the fiddle in a wedding band but he shot an arrow through a Stark man. Slit his mum round the neck and dumped them in the riverlands and baby I just want to dance."He's too well known. Maybe because I barely know anything about Sheeran, but I liked the scene a lot. I just rewatched the episode and it was very interesting seeing Arya go from ready to murder all these guys to growing on them happily sharing their wine. I think it was a bit cringy but very self-aware. The Atlantic I think got it spot on

https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2017/07/game-of-thrones-about-that-cameo/533835/I'm glad they didn't overuse him though. Could have been a lot worse.Is this what it's become? A pop-culture cameo fest?Haha! AgreedI guess it was because I didn't care that it was Ed Sheeran singing by the fire that it didn't take me out of it. But realistically I didn't have a problem with it. It was a useful scene, and I don't think it would be crazy for a group of soldiers to sit around a fire possibly singing if one of them were the type.He kind of did that with the dragonglass discovery.In that case, wouldn't the fleet that arrived first have lookouts to detect and report the arrival of the second fleet?Strong poison needs but a drop right ? The Servants had like 2 jugs each 4 of them  serving. I like that she was so nasty to the girl about wasting good wine when really she saved he.  I'm guessing we have to imagine after killing walder frey she spent a day as him and called the meeting perhaps ordered the poison from a meyster whos unlikely to second guess the lord of the house. Yes, he robbed them in s4 when he was still with arya.I guess I respect your opinion here, but I just don't agree in the slightest. The books are crafted wonderfully, and I do understand its a big undertaking making all these threads sync up and that is the big factor in the slow pace in the releases of these books, but the writing, logic and the character themselves are just so much more believable in the books. I'm not constantly left asking myself How, Why or when when reading the books. The plot holes are growing ever wider and the show isn't following its own logic anymore in the slightest. It looks like a whole lot of work fatigue across the whole production if you ask me.As people have mentioned that's not really a valid complaint. Food can and is transported on a regular basis, the reason they didn't have any food is because its a fort island that was under a lengthy siege with the express intent of starving Stannis out which regularly happens on castles on the mainland too. The risk is minimal to your own men and the enemy faction holed up inside the castle will have to either have to sally out into a bloodbath or starve inside.

I would have accepted it wholesale if they had just shown atleast a small Lannister garrison yielding when they saw the dragons fly over it and the army landing. This was either just laziness or incompetence from the writers, something that is becoming ever more prevalent.But ships with food could easily have been sent periodically from King's Landing when there was no enemy forces forming a blockade. It seems like a key strategic fortress to hold. > holding down the fort.

The expression is "holding the fort", for reasons that one hopes would now be obvious.If the Crown hadn't seized it any number of Pirates or Outlaws would have set up shop there. 

There's a whole castle with a harbour forges and a shipyard just sitting there. Ask /r/doctorwho how people will react to that idea....I think that's part of the point. Red herrings everywhere.I like the theory that it's JaimeTyrion has had the most chapters.  I'm not arguing that he's azor ahai just that he's not a supporting character.
Also I don't like azor ahai. The prophecy is too simple.Don't forget Jaime though. He's had enough book and screen time, and it could be said that he fits the prophecies.

My money is on all three of them, but I've also got some money on Dany croaking pretty soon here.Ghost.My money is the gift will be Yara.
He'll fight at sea with Dany's fleet, capture Yara and take her prisoner back to cersei.Me too. One theory I've held to for about 4 years now is that he's going to get the horn to either hatch new dragon eggs (Maester consipiracy, they have dragon eggs at the citadel) or to combat/steal one of Danny's. 
Aegon who? Or, the show just revealed that these storylines aren't that critical after all.in the show. In the books it would be extremely surprising if it didn't radically alter Jons character.I mean, he would be killed as a runaway otherwise.Everyone knows about Jon being killed, everyone knows about Cercei fucking everyone (including Moonboy), but suddenly a *literal resurrection* of royalty is something no one is going to talk about? 

Get outta town my boy. I mean they pleased me for about 4 seasons pretty easily. The show is seriously different to back then so I'm not surprised some people don't like it much anymore.Dragon what?This was my first thought too and thought it was obvious as he has it in the books already but no one else seems to have mentioned it but you. I had to search all the threads on here. 

The head of a dwarf? The Sand Sneks > is she speaking as the Lord of Winterfell?

did you miss the episode last season where they declared Jon the king in the north?

Sansa is a Stark of Winterfell but not a LordI don't think that's fair. It showed Arya what the common soldier really is.This is why she initially turned the food down.That's a good point. But still, considering Sheeran, I don't think they're likely to live long. Who else could kill them? Brotherhood?I thought it also showed that Arya should cut her losses and go home. What good is getting back at all the people you hate if you never see the family you still have again? She can go home and see Jon and Sansa (and bran eventually) again. The chances of her successfully killing cersei and making it back to Winterfell alive are low considering Cersei is the queen... 

It was a good scene to show Arya that these guys are stuck fighting someone else's battle and want more than anything to go home, whereas she has the opportunity to be with what little remains of her family. Ok, I can kindaaaaaa let the characterisation there slip.

But seriously. No unrest? No reaction anywhere else? In Oldtown? In Winterfell? In the city itself? Just zilch.Didn't think about that. Totally agree. But shouldn't Sansa be the smartest player in the group? She should know more about politics since she lived in King's Landing and learned from LittleFinger. Yet she acted "unprofessionaly" and made a bad play. Kinda ruins her character development.> I think we have almost perfectly opposite opinions!

5) Sam's scene about him throwing shit was waaay too long. Waste of screen time.

so you wanted more shit cleaning?still, kinda reckless to have a Queen going first towards unkown territory. my thought was if a human retained their conciousness and had full blown greyscale they would be superhuman and able to fight the others. How exactly did he get all the way there so quickly?

Jorah is a merman confirmed.Looking for a cureIt was hinted that dragonglass may be able to treat greyscale. If this happens with Jorah maybe the obsidian is infused into the greyscale making the flesh deadly to wights?Ice swords can't melt stone beamsMan, thats just raci--

You know what? It sounds stupid on paper but it will look kickass on screen.this is probably a theory already knowing the amount of theories online. That's a good way of putting it. It was like when Brad Pitt showed up on Friends, and every joke was half winking at the audience about how he was married to Jennifer Aniston in real life. 

Even that line "It's new". No one singing a folk song around the fire would say it's new. "It's new" implies that someone somewhere wrote it and released it. They'd say "It's just something we came up with on the road to keep ourselves entertained" or "It's just something a man in an inn taught me a while back."I want it so bad.

Like, I know no one else does, but... 


I really, *really* like itFirst cousins aren't exactly as scandalous among royalty though.Well I mean, she talked about Cersei in the scene when I noticed it. Made it pretty clear that it was like that to make Sansa seem like herDid you notice how they are no longer pretending that Gilly (Hannah Murray) isn't quite attractive?I fast forwarded to the intro. Very confused when the after the episode thing started. I think it was plenty sneaky. Most people (me included) didn't watch last season recently, I honestly just assumed they were going out of chronological order. Last season they showed Arya killing Frey, I figured this scene was showing the lead up to Arya's killing because they wanted to do some "before he died" reveal.Not really it was even the last thing in the previously on just before the scene.No sneakiness, just my slow old clogs grinding towards catching up with what the hell was going on. Well, the TV show tried to tell me that a girl was participating in a war (because gurrrlll power). It's ridiculous. Somebow the Volkssturm was awful, but in a fictional world it's suddenly "badass" and "girl power" to use the general population as soldiers.It always felt to me like the writers and producers were very aware of the audience's reaction to Lyanna Mormont. Sometimes it feels less like they're writing dialogue for her and more like they're writing material for a "10 times Lyanna Mormont was a badass" listicle on Buzzfeed.

Also, as far as I remember, in the books the women of Bear Island are already hardened warriors. The men went away to fight with the Starks in the war, and while they were gone the island came under attack from Wildlings and the women were forced to learn how to defend it. 

I suppose it skips them having an awkward conversation about fighting alongside Wildlings but I think it's a more interesting backstory for them.>But the thing is Glover wasn't telling her that she and the other Mormont women couldn't fight. He was just objecting to having Glover women fight. He even tries to explain himself to Lyanna but she cuts him off and then gives her whole speech.

I read it as her shaming him with her own willingness to fight and he backs down.Well, if I would have taken a look into the hall as a guard because of the strange noises and see everyone dying at the same time...
I would run for my life for sure, fuck the freys. Guards there aren't the kingsguard "giving their life for greater good/honor" kind. Knowing when to get the fuck off is how you stay alive :DI mean, she said he betrayed her. 
She had always believed whatever suited her to justify her acts but now they come with a 100%  madness. Almost as bad as people downvoting credible theories because they don't agree with them.There was like a minute of dialogue about it. "We never talked about Tommen" etc ep1 and 7So now show watchers know how it feels when we got AFFC/ADWD then.I mean, we also got red wedding 2.0. Hell of a way to kick off the seasonLess episodes, but longer episodes so it evens out.I understand completely but having an action packed season opener I don't think would bode well for the episodes to come. However limited the air time this season, they need to carefully lay the plot lines out otherwise we'll have a cluster f*ck of a tv show. I'm sure more action awaits next episode...Sigur Ros also played on Joffrey's wedding.Precisely.  You didn't know who is was so of course it wasn't incredibly distracting to you. For most people who knew him the regular lingering shots on him broke what should have been a tense scene. But that worked because the Frey House band sucked  [removed][removed]Yes. Let's ignore the rest of the episode, because a 30 second cameo completely ruined itThank you so much. It was torture trying to remember where I knew him fromYup. He played his part very well. His character almost seemed to have the hots for Arya too, which was kinda cute. You might be aware of this already, but I wanted to point it out since you said "movie" (and others may be unaware). There's 3 mini-series that followed the film (set in '83):

* This is England '86
* This is England '88
* This is England '90

It's the same characters and it just continues the story, seeing how their lives turned out. The quality is as good as the film and you should absolutely watch it if you haven't alreadyIt was fine, I liked it too, but if you recognize him it was a little jarring. Kind of pulls you out of the world.

Just anecdotally talking with my friends who aren't biased against the show and haven't read the books, almost always the two things they bring up are the first scene with Arya and the Ed Sheeran scene. The former being awesome, the latter being weird.

It was pretty innocuous and we'll forget about it in two weeks, but I think on net they shouldn't have done it. Felt off tone to see an enormously famous pop star doing a cameo. Yeah it was fine, the only people complaining are the kind who are suspiciously eager to tell everyone how much that they hate this or that celebrity. It was a perfectly decent, ordinary cameo. It was a totally fine, well done scene. The issue is just that if you know who Sheeran is, it breaks the immersion a bit.

I thought it was a nice scene and it didn't bother me a lot but on net, I think it was a bad call. Makes the show feel a little cheaper.Maybe it's because I only vaguely know who Ed Sheeran is, but I didn't think it was cringey either. They wisely only gave him a few lines and he did fine with those, then they let the actors take over. He was in a few shots but some of that is because he's literally sitting next to Arya. What?A lot of people don't know him. I knew him, but barely, and I don't give two shits about him, so it didn't detract, for me personally, at all. I think a lot of people are overthinking this.I really didn't like that scene. It was an extended "plz don't murder us!" it was so over the top.It wast the scene that was bad- Arya was forced to remember soliders can be humans- not all soldiers are like The Mountain and his men who relish in hurting others. Some are being forced to fight because of powerful people.


But the Ed Sheeran cameo was cringy. They zoomed on his face multiple times, made him a singer, told arya he was writing a new song, had him in the background of pretty much every shot of arya.


It lacked subtlety and was very heavy fisted. I don't even care that he was in the show- just care about how forced the cameo felt, as it felt like it was supposed to dislodge the viewer from the story and go "hey! Ed sheeran is in GoT" vs "hey! Wasn't that character Ed sheeran?">**The appearance was jarring, more specifically, because Ed Sheeran existing in the same world as Cersei Lannister.** Game of Thrones is a show, after all, that highly values insularity as a reflection of its carefully constructed universe—a universe so unable to conceive of anything beyond itself that characters refer to it not by a name, but rather as, simply, “the world.”

That is a kind of silly argument. By the same token it could be said that Boromir, Hermione's mom, Professor Slughorn and a CIA guy that gets thrown off a plane all exist in the same world as Jon Snow. The fact that it was so self-aware is what the problem was. The amount they lingered on him was akin to a Frank Sinatra cameo on Bewitched.In what way? He sang a twee song. The only way it could have been worse was if he sang one of his own songsSee [this comment](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nw273/spoilers_extended_game_of_thrones_season_7/dkd7cy5/). 

If you're a "gentleman of a certain age", the books already pulled this stunt on you, and it was jarring even then, twenty years ago. So, yes, it's always been like this. Don't act so shocked."Waaaaaaaaaaaah." 

That's you. That's what you sound like.The writing is starting to suffer a bit because of that. I enjoyed it but it parodied itself at points. Who on earth would've thought "top knot" would be something heard in Thrones ffsNo?It may have been a bit too obvious, but it's nothing completely new. Coldplay's drummer in season 3, Sigur Ros and Snow Patrol in season 4, Of Monsters And Men in season 6, plus The National performing Rains of Castamere.There's been like 1 cameo per season. This one was a bit heavy handed, but I don't really see it becoming a huge thing. Thanks. I remember him robbing people in the books but I can't seem to remember him doing it in the series. Man that adds a whole new level of grimness to the episode.>The books are crafted wonderfully, and I do understand its a big undertaking making all these threads sync up and that is the big factor in the slow pace in the releases of these books, but the writing, logic and the character themselves are just so much more believable in the books

I think you're missing my point. My point is that there are no books for the plot over the last few seasons. The books are not crafted wonderfully, they're not crafted at all.trueI think Tryion CAN be azor ahai, his mother had affair with Aegon. show jaime has become so dull and zero dimensional, I really hope he either dies this season or experiences some accelerated character development so that he's worth having around in the endgame. But what would she want yara for? More likely tyrion or ellaria. New dragons wouldn't be of use for a very long time but I could definitely see the horn used to kill or control Viserion or Rhaegal  As someone who finds Victarion's storyline tedious and uninteresting, I hope you are right.Or, the show is just going in a different directionThe settings were just a lot different in the earlier books compared to the newer books. The main characters were physically closer together and this allowed for better scene progression.

However, as the story progressed, the characters physically drifted across Westeros, and this forces the show runners to switch settings at a more rapid pace. This prevents scenes from being as fluid. Fortunately, as the show nears the end, the characters will once again become closer physically, and we should theoretically get larger and more fluid scenes at each of the different settings. In the books Euron claims to have a horn that can control dragons. Robert was King, but Renly was Lord of Storms End.Sansa is the legitimate Lord of Winterfell and the Heir of King Robb (as far as anybody knows), and Jon is just a Stark bastard. Sansa is also the heir of the Boltons, who claimed Winterfell by right of conquest. Robb's northern kingdom ended with him, and his bannermen grudgingly accepted the Boltons and Southron rule.

Jon's elevation by acclamation as King in the North is a brand new thing and doesn't claim legitimacy through Robb. It doesn't diminish Sansa's claims to Winterfell, though it's never spelt out what the distinction is. I'm assuming that Jon is Sansa's heir and vice versa. My guess is that Littlefinger's plan is to sow doubts in Sansa's mind about Jon's claim to Winterfell.Did you miss the scene where Jon gives. Sansa her parents bedroom and calls her the Lady of Winterfell?Exactly. 

The moment she decides is quite visible. they don't even need to be killed. arya can just ride on, leaving these guys behind to do their own thing (which is currently not murdering everyone in sight, but rather to keep an eye out for additional trouble), never to be seen again. sheeran problem solved. I don't know if others have said this (I suspect they must have), but given that Jamie and Cersei haven't discussed Tommen, I suspect Arya will Tommen it up to get close to Cersei.

Whether or not that'll actually work though will be interesting.>Yet she acted "unprofessionaly" and made a bad play.

Her teacher wasn't littlefinger, it was Cersei. The unsullied open the gates for her at the start from the inside, so it'll have had a quick sweep. Ok, I'm a dumbass, it's official...I totally missed that the original premise was that the *good guys* having grey would give them word abilities to help fight the "bad guys"... Ok, my bad.

SHAME!
SHAME!
SHAME! 
on me. LoLIDK about that *but* imagine this:

A psychotic, rabid, **nothing to lose & totally infectious** undead, greyscale wight.... Now *that* would be an "ah, fook it, I give up & totally don't wanna fight the WW's anymore" level enemy for the humans. Hahaha

**Ahhhh! Dude! Even better!:**

An

-Undead

-Flying

-Greyscale having

-Infectious

-Zombie

-Ice

-Dragon!!!

Jon Snow sees above flying nightmare:

"Yeah, so umm, *literally* **FOOOK this shit**, I'm sailing to Bravos! Peace out!"

HahahaI want to believe it but that just doesn't make sense to me, considering how much they emphasize how tragic it is for someone to get greyscale.He set out half a season before Dany. Varys is the only merman.Jorah, hugging wights to death.Oh shit - Shireen, the only known cured case of greyscale, happened to be living on a mountain of dragonglass.I mean... you're probably not *wrong...*Hope so; if I remember, I'll ask in the Q&A thread on Weds :)The song the Lannister soldiers were singing was Hands of Gold, a song written by a character in the books about Tyrion when he was serving as Hand before the Blackwater. So, as folk songs go, it would probably be considered extremely new.In this case though, it actually is a new song from King's Landing.I swear I heard that song before or was it in the books?ASOIAF, where every song has been around like 200 years or specifically created by patronage: hi I'm singer-songwriter Ed Sheeran and here's a new ditty you can buy in iTunes.Tons of people want Sansa/Jon. 

Meanwhile I'm just over here, alone in the Brienne/Sansa camp.I've been Team SanJon for years. Keep the red headed dream alive. But they're officially half siblings.Which I don't like because I don't think they are remotely similar. Plus Sansa's hair reveals her mindset at the time in most episodes. Like when she was tight with Margaery she was wearing it Reach style, but then let it loose Northern style when she was pissed off.The way you can always see her front teeth when she smiles is kind of cute.Ah I can see that. For me, I know Walder was dead so the entire scene had zero tension. I knew exactly what would happen the second I saw Walder's face. I don't think the show ever does scenes out of chronological order except in flashbacks. could've been a flashback.I took it as him objecting to women fighting period.  It seemed like a mix of "but they're *girls!"* as well as the desire to want to protect and keep them safely out of harms way.They mentioned that he is dead, but didn't talk about how or why. Cersei didn't seem to feel guilty about it at all which, to me, seems out of character because she loves her children. Thanks for the info>I mean, we also got red wedding 2.0. Hell of a way to kick off the season

Totally unearned. I don't know, killing Freys is a bit too easy and the Freys themselves are too comically unsympathetic that I didn't really think much of it.

The scenes at the Citadel were cool, as was the Sandor scenes.

The Dany scene is too expected to make much of an impact, and surprisingly there was not a single soul looking over Dragonstone.  I guess even if they empty out the castle going north, wouldn't some peasants seek shelter in there?  But there's literally no one there.  It was just too expected and uneventful.

It did it's work gettting everyone on the same page but nothing really shocking happened yet.More like Red Wedding 0.2, no one we knew died. No we got a bunch of nameless Freys being poisoned. Don't get me wrong, the Arya reveal was cool but to compare it to the Red Wedding in any way is a bit silly. Fewer.It doesn't even out. It's still less overall than what were used tohttp://imgur.com/QXJ9vka[don't do that](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy). 
Yeah, that's why I watched it anyway. It was great! I was pleased :).Um. No. I actually really like Ed Sheeran. As a hobbyist singer/songwriter myself I have massive respect for the guy and consider him an idol, or inspiration, of sorts.

I also agree that the scene was cringey as hell. I won't re-iterate what others have said. If you want my reasoning then read the comments from /u/materhillcarpark and /u/not_untoward, they basically mirror my sentiments.

I don't see how it's any different from using a well known actor though. If it were say... Brad Pitt, would that still be cheap? It's just odd to me.The worst part was how overly nice the soldiers were but it humanized Arya a lot which I liked. Daniel Craig in star wars force awakens = cameo done right.   This was a cameo done wrong.  i'm really glad I don't know what Ed Shereen looks like I didn't know what Ed sheeran looks like, and I hadn't heard about any cameo, but the scene was shot in a way that made me feel like I was supposed to know who that person was, so I started thinking about minor characters I may have forgotten. Turns out it was just a cameo from a singer. Good scene but ruined because they expected us to care who a pop singer is. Even just the singing wasn't bad because that's pretty normal for people to do, but the shots of the bloke ruined it.Not really. They're saying it wasn't really Ed sheeran doing an acting cameo, it was set up essentially to be Ed sheeran appearing as himself. Rewatch the scene. He barely spoke and was only 'lingered' on because he was sitting next to arya. He was out of focus and not speaking most of the scene. It really wasn't that big of a deal. By him being in one of the other two speaking roles too. I'm glad they left that to the actual actors. You say that as if "top knot" is some kind of modern expression anachronistic to the fantasy setting... it's really notAgreed. You'd think something as popular as GOT would be able to afford decent writers. 

Are there different writers this season? The first episode just felt...off. I can understand why readers would be frustrated at that tbf. I'm curious to see what will happen in the remaining books, they are definitely exercising their poetic license on the tv show.

I prefer them to create the show on guidelines rather than paragraphs, it keeps the excitement for the books, makes them feel more genuine.It's something they've been doing since last season. They don't have source material to go on, and they seem to be using it as an excuse to throw in scenes that they think will play well on the internet.

The top knot thing was clearly a self referential jab at the fact that a top knot is a Game of Thrones-y hairstyle, but most people in real life think it's a bit silly. The only thing that could have made that worse is the Hound winking at the camera.

Last year they had a problem with throwing strong female character tropes at a wall and seeing what stuck. GoT has always been a show with a lot of strong female characters anyway but there was a lot of feminist cultural analysis going on at the time and someone in the HBO marketing department had noticed. It's a shame because there aren't many well written women on TV and they turned a good opportunity in to a bit of a joke.

We got a lot of good stuff, but storylines like the one with the Sand Snakes suffered. I know Lyanna Mormont is a fan favourite, but I always thought that she quickly descended in to self-parody. Everything she does seems to be perfectly set up for someone online to turn it in to a gif.

My problem with the Sheeran scene is that it was a good scene for Arya. It was well written and it illustrated how these people she sees as the enemy are just a bunch of normal blokes doing their jobs. The fact that it was Ed Sheeran just distracted from that. It felt like they were trying to get a headline first and then tell the story second.Me when Cersei says 'armada': hmmm GRRM is very conscious of the words he uses and wouldn't throw a Spanish word in like that when 'fleet' would do. Still, not everything should be done according to GRRM's rules.

Me when Sandor says top knot: [...I...](http://i1.kym-cdn.com/entries/icons/original/000/021/557/conceit.JPG)He didn't say man-bun so it's okay with me!The National was actually good though. This scene was hamfisted garbage.How dare you forget Mastadon was at HardhomeNone of those are as instantly recognisable as Ed Sheeran either, though. I don't know what he's famous for but I know his face, whereas I love Sigur Ros but unless you are particularly familiar with them they'd just pass you by.The band Mastodon played white walkers at hardhome. You had to really pay attention for the other cameos. The Ed Sheeran one was just too in your face.Oh, books to base the story on? Then yes, sorry I misunderstood you. Sure, I can see how the quality would naturally take a hit there ofcourse, and I always expected it as they diverged. But my problem isn't that. I love that they've split actually, its the quality that the show is doing that bothers me. Even by normal tv show standards its writing has become worse and worse and becomes increasingly nonsensical with almost zero attempts at following its own rules anymore. I'm just completely unable to suspend my suspension of disbelief with this show anymore, and I'm just really bummed about that. It was my favorite show as mentioned. I would get up at 5 in the morning before school and later work to watch it every monday when it became available here and I was just so satisfied by its quality at the end of each episode nothing could even try to compare in terms of TV or even movies.Your right. Can't believe I forgot Ellaria is there. 
Itll be her IMO.I was interested in seeing them introduce that one guy who I'm struggling to describe because of spoilers though.But more than likely, just not critical to the story line.Sorry I really disageee. The writing isn't bad because the characters are far apart, It's bad because the showrunners don't have source material to work off of.

Most of the really stunning moments from the earlier seasons were in one on one conversations (Jamie and Etienne at harranhall, tyrion in the court or tyrion and Jamie in the prison) or oberyn  Martell in general. It was nothing to do with the proximity of the characters to one another it was to do with the strength of the script and actors really going for it.

You can't seriously not see the drop in quality in terms of writing/acting/imagination within individual scenes. It's just a big dumb blockbuster now when before it had subtly and nuance.But Robert was still the Lord in the Seat of the Kingdom he was King of. Thats a lot different than the King of the North not being the Lord of the Seat of the Kingdom of the North the kids clearly just re-swore allegiance to house Stark and bowed to Jon Snow, i wouldnt be so sure that he isnt the ruler of winterfell as of right now. Sansa is gonna lose even a shred of a claim when Bran makes it to winterfell

the game of thrones wiki has them listed as
Lord
King Jon I Snow (de facto)
Princess Sansa Stark (official)
Prince Bran Stark (rightful)Well, he tries!Except they did discuss himAll doors were opened from the outside.well either way makes sense really if the greyscale would disempower the walkers. **Ahhhh! Dude! Even better!:**

A

-One-eyed

-One-horned

-Flying

-Purple

-People Eater!!!

Jon Snow sees above flying nightmare:

"Yeah, so umm, I wanna get a job in a rock 'n roll band"

Then the nightmare chooses not to eat him because he is so tough.Yeah like, I know I'm going into book level detail here, but greyscale is supposed to drive ppl insane & less than animals eventually, right?

I guess I'm just missing something, idk.She's not the only known cured case. You can survive greyscale and you'll be immune to it afterwards.I've been out of aSoIaF for a while so forgive my lack of source. However, if I remember correctly Shireen isn't the only known cured case of greyscale, it's sort of similar to chickenpox but way more deadly, where if a kid catches it it is possible they survive, if an adult catches it it's far more dangerous.

It's rare that Shireen survived, but she's not the only case. (I think.)..this...this is making an awful lot of sense to meIt's in the books, mostly tied to Tyrion and Shae and all that.It was in the books! Symon Silvertongue (iirc) wrote it about Tyrion when he was staying at Shae's manse to entertain her. Then Tyrion had Bronn kill him and he probably ended up in a bowl o' brown. Except it is a new song, written about Tyrion and Shae...I, too, ship Sandor Clegane and Jon ConningtonYoure kidding right?

Jons mother is Lyanna Stark; Sansas father is Lyanna's brother Ned.  First Cousins.Wow. Buzzfeed straight up plagiarized you. You might wanna check it out lol. When Sansa was close to Margaery she was a lady within the Queens royal court. It would have been typical (and often expected) to copy the Queens/soon to be Queen's style. See, I forgot that he was dead, so total surprise here, lolEver get that feeling of deja vu?There was a poster a while back who mentioned that after Joffrey and Myrcella she shut herself down emotionally because of the prophecy. Tommen was her least "favourite" child and she knew he would die anyway so her actions weren't so much about preserving his life as preserving her power. I can't find it but it was an interesting perspective. She could be repressing it. I expext a breakdown later.I actually thought that her saying Tommen betrayed her, coupled with Jaime's reaction, seemed like a pretty efficient way of setting the tone for the next step of their interactions. I do see what you are saying about Cersei formerly prioritizing her kids above all but she's also been flipping her lid for several seasons now.

Edit: oh and she also immediately went for her wine when Jaime brought it up.And how exactly was it unearned?Dragonstone has no food. Nobody is going to shelter there.

It is a bit weird for there to be no garrison i'll admit. Cersei apparently seeing no point in ever recapturing the island.But I knew them!
Frey 1, Frey 2, Frey 3, Frey 4, Frey 5,  oh nvmd that was Frey 23...
There are, uhm, were a lot of freys actually o.oGreat one!The Arya reveal was also very expectedBuddy you're about 10 hours late with your joke.*grinds teeth*Man, every time I see Stannis, I miss him being in the show. Nature of the narrative, I suppose, but he's one character I actually miss seeing aroundIf it's a guy that costs a ton of money to put in the show it's not going to seem as cheap necessarily, but yeah, if Brad Pitt just popped in for a quick cameo that would be jarring.I thought Mastodon's cameo was pretty good too. http://i.imgur.com/HilinpH.jpg [deleted]Or even Coldplay in GoT might be a better exampleHe's the guy with the giant orange head.It's immersion breaking and there's absolutely zero place for that in the world of ice and fire.For a show with god-tier cinematography like GOT, having someone taking up half a shot while blurred, while trying to emphasize one character's separation from the others, is amateurish blocking and framing.  I can't believe it was an accident, which makes it just poor direction.Who are some other cameos that were that noticeably cameos in GOT.

He was given front and centre attention, which wasn't 'oh wait is that ed sheeran?' but was obviously from when we could only hear him, a set up.

There's more to cameos than lines.Also, at least they got this cameo out of the way in the premiere.  I didn't mind it too much, but I agree with the critics that its a bit clunky.  But it's short and now it's done and won't kill the momentum of the season going forward.I mean he did have some lines along with that. He genuinely did more in that episode than half the main cast.I know for certain I heard the word armada twice last night. It stuck out each time in a very obvious way. Best cameo so far Nobody cares about mastodonYeah, but they just kinda showed up to the set looking like that, they were just passing by.Not critical to the show. They've ruined some storylines for sure. Semantics. She will rule when he goes ranging.While I don't actually think it's the case, it could be possible for Jon Snow to be king in the north while Sansa remains as Lord of Winterfell. Weirdly, his claim is more powerful because it's backed up by her forgoing her more legitimate claim to support him.True. I think I was remembering the discussion being less clear cut.

What I should've said is, that they hadn't discussed him - and perhaps it was brought up to set up Arya pretending to be him. 

Cersei has herself convinced that he betrayed her, though perhaps Arya will try to mess with her mind. I'm not really sure if she'll make Cersei go (more) insane, which prompt Jamie to kill her. But I do think Arya will disguise herself as Tommen to get close.

Just for my own benefit I looked up the discussion, and I'll render it here as well. As I said though, it's less vague than I remembered at the moment of writing, so perhaps I'll turn out to be wrong:

> J: We never talked about Tommen

> C: There's nothing to say

>J: Our baby boy killed himself

>C: He betrayed me. He betrayed us both. Should we spend our days mourning the dead - mother, father, and all our children? 

>J: Cersei...

>C: I loved them, I did. But they're ashes now, and we're still flesh and blood. We're the last Lannisters. The last ones who count.

> *Discussion of allies*Maybe Varys knew Stannis didn't leave a single fucking man in the castle, and that's why they were fine with it.**Ahhh dude!  Even better:

So then the nightmare, along with Jon's "band of 12", all toss everything off but their small clothes (Westerosi bathing suits?) and everyone has a beach blanket bingo 50's style sock hop in the freezing fucking cold because, why not? & (plot twist!) the Night King turns out to be this really bad ass underground DJ who only played the EDM scenes in the Lands of Always Winter for 8000 years, crafting his skills but recently decided to go mainstream & **that's why he's trying to get past the wall** so he can get his mixtape into a Maesters hands since, as everyone knows, the Citadel is *actually* the most bangin' night club in Oldtown, which is, of course, the Westerosi version of Los Angeles, CA.  

Oh and the wights? 

Yeah they're just harmless, albeit **very** enthusiastic groupies - pretty much the Northern equivalent of Beyonce's "Bey-hive" or whatever TF they're called.

Then Jorah finally builds up the courage & passes a note, scratch that, Raven to Sam to fly ASAP to ask Dany to "the big homecoming dance" at Dragonstone, buuuut....

... Ok, what next?

Sidenote (I really think we better copyright all this bcz HBO is totally gonna try to steal our badass ideas for one of the prequels, so I'll get right on that LMAO)When they sailed near Old Valyria, Tyrion and Jorah are attacked by crazed people that went full greyscale. I'm curious if Old Valyria created the diesease in the first place.Eventually it does yeah. But if they can fight and use their disease against the WW whilst they still have their marbles they might have an impact. 

If this theory comes to fruition I can imagine jorah fighting for the living/Dany and then after the battle start turning and needing to be put down.I'm not sure if the show has said that some children survive, it might be that the show will have it this way to add another use of dragon glass whereas in the books it's not a problem since jorah doesn't have greyscale and joncon will probably just die of it or die before it kills himI've seen this mentioned elsewhere, but I haven't actually seen anyone back it up with text from the books. I was the under the impression it was a miracle she was saved.Wait, I thought the minstrel's name was Marillion, like [the band](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marillion) (who had to truncate their name for [obvious reasons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Silmarillion))?Ohh.. what's their couple name? Sanjon? Jondor? Clegington? Hmm, I rather ship Jon Con and Young Griff actually. Yeah but Jon was raised as her half brother and neither of them know about Jon's parentage I think they meant that according to Sansa, Jon and everyone in that world they are half siblings. They don't know Jon's true parentage so to them it would be sibling incest and therefore scandalousReally? Have we seen this in the asoiaf universe before?Cheers, love!CAVALRY'S 'EREcould've been a flashbackMagic ninja appears at the twins and kills everyone.

Compare to the Red Wedding where Robbs choices lead him down a path to eventual ruin, step by step, with actual build up. Now imagine Robb was just sitting around with his men one day and Catelyn poisoned everyone out of the blue then pulled of a mask to reveal a cackling Walder Frey.

It's fine I suppose, if Scooby Doo is your idea of good storytelling.And how the fuck did we earn red wedding 1 qqWell, that's what she gets for killing Loras.> It is a bit weird for there to be no garrison i'll admit.

Is it? If there was a garrison there, wouldn't they have had plenty of time to gtfo after seeing the ships/dragons on the horizon?Yes, very expected. But I 100% liked her lines there, that was fantastic. He was a storm trooper so you never saw his face.  From memory he was the one who came in then got 'mind-forced' (no idea what to call it) into dropping his gun for Rei and leaving the room.  This was more like chris Martin in andy millman's sitcom in Extras

'Oh look its chris martin from coldplay what are you doing in our factory'When was Coldplay on game of thrones Coldplay was in GoT?

[edit] Oh snap, apparently so was Snow Patrol.  > It's immersion breaking and there's absolutely zero place for that in the world of ice and fire.

Not anymore apparently! :( 

I'm getting mentally prepared to see the first Pepsi product placement. You people are over thinking it. I had no idea who or what the fuck ed sheeran was and I thought it was a nice scene. 

Y'all need to stop taking fantasy stories so seriously lmaoFirst watch through I definitely noticed, but it didn't detract from the episode at all. Second time around it was even less noticeable for all the reasons I mentioned above.

Somehow, to some people this cameo tarnishes GoT in some way...whatever that means. People see what they want to see.He had more *lines* than half the main cast. There's a lot more to acting than just delivering lines and several of the main cast did their usual great work with just looks and movementI'm just ready for arya to find out that he's symeon silvertounge, and itss actually about Shae. We need MORE FANSERVICE until nothing else remains!Well, the Armada was burned... 🤔Lol. I wasnt trying to argue. You made some good points I agree because sansa may he the biggest ranking lord in the north right now  I saw an interesting theory that said sansa mightve been playing littlefinger by second guessing jon, that be awesome. Littlefinger is going to stir up something between her and jon if she doesnt get rid of him soon
It certainly brings up an interesting dilemma. Could Jon - assuming he survives the Long Night (doubtful) - send Sansa to be lady of the Dreadfort and make that her seat? I can't imagine the King in the North being anywhere other than Winterfell.Maybe. Yet some precautionary measures would be an obvious decision. Also, since Stannis for some reasons didn't leave a single fucking man in his "home/main base/capital" castle, some lord or band could easily occupie it. Imagine how happy those people will be? A fucking Dragonstone without guards for free??? Fucking miracle! They will propably will be 24/7 drunk and partying. Guards would be super bored and propably be drunk all the time. So when Danny marches confidently to claim fucking Dragonstone, some drunk guard could just put an arrow into her arrogant head. Ok, I'm a dumbass, it's official...I totally missed that the original premise was that the *good guys* having grey would give them word abilities to help fight the "bad guys"... Ok, my bad.

SHAME!
SHAME!
SHAME! 
on me. LoLStill tho, here's what I don't get-

Even if they infected every single wight & WW's, greyscale takes for-ev-er to get really bad so all that infecting them would end up doing is counterproductive - creating a million undead, walking, attacking, assholes who do even *more harm* by infecting the good guys, the very *same* ppl who originally Infected them.

It'd be like if on TWD, Rick gave the zombies AIDS, so now not only are they tryna eat your brain their open sores are likely to spread HIV.

(Basic premise, I know, I know, my analogy had some sciency issues, but now does it make sense how I'm imagining it at least?)

Ok so, maybe I need help understanding *how* weaponising greyscale would help them achieve their goals & not actually make fighting them even more dangerous...Jon: “Greyscale.”

Val: “The grey death is what we call it.”

Jon: “It is not always mortal in children.”

Val: “North of the Wall it is. Hemlock is a sure cure, but a pillow or a blade will work as well. If I had given birth to that poor child, I would have given her the gift of mercy long ago.No, Marillion is the one that Catelyn meets at the inn at the crossroads who follows them to the Vale and ends up getting the blame for Lysa's death by moondoor. Strong username to post content ratio Season 1 Sansa definitely copied Cersei's hair when she first arrived at KLNot like this...We also got 2 seasons of buildup for arya being a faceless man. Now, we finally get to see her use her powers. It's not we who earned it. They basically followed the books to a T  for Robb's storyline which is why it was so good in the show. I'm a book purist tho. Mastodon as well. Sigur Ros too.Yep. And thats the good kind of cameo. Its a neat little thing if you notice it and not if they shove it down your throatThe reason they put in a cameo is because a big portion of the viewers at least recognize him. For everyone of those it breaks the immersion at least in some kind of way. Just because you are not part of that group doesn't stop it from being an overall immersion breaking, *unnescessary* addition. 

A bad call from D&D and a dangerous potential first step on a path that leads to spinoffs filled with indirect adds and cameos. And the reason that I take this seriously is because they have shown before to put real world marketing aspects before story telling aspects. See Sand snakes and other changes that give female roles more importance than they actually have/need to have, just because it fits the real-world 'hype' around pro-feminism these past few years. 

*Important side not: I am absolutely pro feminism etc. in the real world. It's good that this is happening because a lot of regions in the world are so far behind in this. A lot of companies ride this feminism-wave because it makes good PR. But you can't deny that most of them do it only because of that. HBO and thus D&D absolutely jumped on that very same ship. And it is bad for the story. It doesn't make it bad, it just makes the story less good than it could be.*If I saw what I wanted to see I wouldn't have seen him ;)Really? The only person I can think you're referring to is Danerys silent walk up to Dragonstone which personally I think is a perfect example of how to convey zero emotion or character in what is supposed to be a massive moment. It was so bad!

Please go and compare this to the scene in return of the king where the hobbits return to the shire. Similarly no lines and just acting through facial expressions and actions. They convey SO much more that as an audience it's clear that they are relived to be home but feel out of place, world weary and changed from the last time we saw them, there is maturity compared to how we have previously seen them in this situation.

We spent almost 3 times as long with Danerys and the director/script writers/actress cannot give the audience anything remotely satisfying. She just looks around and slowly walks with a completely expressionless face. There is nothing there to read into or enjoy?

Sorry for the rant but I just think that GoT used to be a really interesting well written and well designed show. It's essentially just a Michael Bay blockbuster now and it actually really gets me!

Nope. It was harried in to a storm and wrecked all along the coast. Thank you! Has Jon met Shireen before? I am wondering where he learned that.It's just a jump to the left>We also got 2 seasons of buildup for arya being a faceless man.

Which was in itself completely ridiculous from start to finish.

>Now, we finally get to see her use her powers.

Ruin perfectly good storylines by being massively OP.

FTFYI thought they had him on the show because Arya's actress is a huge fan > a big portion of the viewers at least recognize him

Source? Or did you just assume this?She's at Castle Black when Stannis saves them from Mance's army. I don't remember the two having dialog but I do remember her helping Gilly in the library. No worries! I just googled it tbhYou dont seem to like the concept of faceless men? If so, Blame GRRM. He's the one who came up with it. He has two songs in the Top 10 of the US charts right now, it's a safe bet.The faceless men are cool in the books, but the show makes them retarded. You're absolutely right, the Arya narrative falls apart at the House of Black and White - but what I specifically dislike is a magic ninja killing the enemies of House Stark in ludicrous plotlines, using tropes the writers borrowed from Scooby Doo.

In the novels Red Wedding 2 will almost certainly happen in Riverrun and have an actual plot involving members of the Brotherhood who have ingratiated themselves into the Frey's retinue.

I seriously doubt GRRM begins a chapter with a magic ninja appearing in a different continent and killing an entire house. Could be wrong on that, but it would be a break with everything he's ever written, so history is on my side there.Where did Arya get so much poison from? How did she act like Walder Frey in disguise when she hardly knew the man?And? Doesn't mean people know what he looks like.Nah it isn't most people don't listen to that shit at all.

My son Wendel came to the Twins a guest. He ate Lord Walder's bread and salt, and hung his sword upon the wall to feast with friends. 

And they murdered him. 

Murdered, I say, 
and may the Freys choke upon their fables. 

I drink with Jared, jape with Symond, promise Rhaegar the hand of my own beloved granddaughter 

... but never think that means I have forgotten. 

The north remembers, Lord Davos. The north remembers, and the mummer's farce is almost done. My son is home."

ADWD > I know about the promise ... Maester Theomore, tell them! A thousand years before the Conquest, a promise was made, and oaths were sworn in the Wolf's Den before the old gods and the new. When we were sore beset and friendless, hounded from our homes and in peril of our lives, the wolves took us in and nourished us and protected us against our enemies. The city is built upon the land they gave us. In return we swore that we should always be their men. Stark men!

 - Wyalla Manderly

Iirc, I think It's about a promise made when the starks gave lordships to people who were struggling, and in exchange they promised the Starks their loyalty forever. The North remembers the promise. I believe its short for "The north remembers to bow to its most recent conqueror"."The North Remembers" is just a saying that's been a part of the North's history. Everyone knows what it means. I don't think it takes some kind of triggering event, like Bran doing something in the past. It's like "a Lannister always pays his debts." It's not like there was a first time a Lannister paid someone back that launched the saying.Still get chills reading that.Gylbert Farwynd Check out this link: http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Category:Seas.

It appears there are 14 seas. 15 are listed, but the Silver Sea is ancient and has dried up, leaving three large lakes.

Additionally, I don't think we would term some of these as seas, like the ones of inland Essos or the ones that are primarily just bays, but that is likely what people in a time period like this would call them.I have only heard of five: The Narrow Sea, The Shivering Sea, The Sunset Sea, The Summer Sea and The Jade Sea. But Victarion would probably count the Dothraki Sea as well. To be the best of the 14 doesn't necessarily mean he had to go to all 14. Well I'll be damned, that is awesome. Totally overlooked smaller seas.> I wanna be the very best
>
>Like no one ever was
>
>To sail them is my real test
>
>To conquer them is my cause
>
>
>
>I will travel across the sea
>
>Searching far and wide
>
>Each sea to understand
>
>The power that's inside
>
>
>gotta sail 'em all

Euron, probably doing a guitar solo during band practice.I feel like the vision at the gate was probably the future, Bran doesn't need the trees for greensight (visions of the future). Maybe he was warging into a raven near the army?You're right. He did have that vision at the gate. The editing suggests as much: [last shot of the marching wights](http://i.imgur.com/vxtEFXf.png) vs [first shot of Bran arriving at the Wall](http://i.imgur.com/NubpDw0.png). I actually came here to post these screenshots, but you already had a great post up. This is pretty cool. Alt Shift X talked about this in one of his videos and I am super excited that this can actually be a thing: Bran controlling the wights in some way like he did Hodor. ~~I'll have to rewatch--but when did Bran have a vision without "plugging in" to the Weirwood?  I thought he had his hand on a Weirwood when he had his vision.~~ Edit: You're right.  Just rewatched Bran is at the gate for sure when he has that vision.  Good catch.  Bran and Arya are super powered!

As far as Edd, I think Bran saw Hardhome and the Fist of the First Men while he was plugged in at some point and saw Edd there both times.  I don't think he just saw Edd and knew his past like that, but it was ambiguous I guess.

I liked the mist too, similar to what has been described in the books.  Really makes it look like the walkers are an unstoppable tsunami.  And I like your Ice Dragon theory as well.  It's something I've thought we might see since I saw the reanimated horses, actually.

And as far as Bran and his mark...  we shall see.  Seems like one of those small details that could come back and be huge, or the showrunners could conveniently forget that ever happened and the invasion of the 3 eyed raven's tree could be a one-off.  But I do agree the Wall is coming down and that seems like as good a reason for it as any.Pretty sure it isn't Mag the Mighty. I think the giants there were just random giants. I think the NW would have made sure to burn a damn giant that died at the wall.I know, I am so excited to see where Bran's story goes this season!

You should totally do your own post with those screen shots, this post I made is getting down-voted to oblivion and I think other people would find them interesting. Oh, you're right, dude! Bran totally did have that vision with Hardhome last season! 

I am pretty sure Bran was just sitting outside the gate with Meera when he had that vision last night, but I am gunna re-watch tonight. Good point! [Done and done.](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nx1za/spoilers_extended_bran_and_foreshadowing_in_the/)Berics dead thoMaking Beric into AA would definitely give his character a solid purpose this late into the show, but I just have two issues. One, I'm pretty sure Beric is dead dead in the books and I can't see the books and the show having different Azor Ahai's. Secondly, there's other points to the prophecy besides a flaming sword, like "being born amongst salt and smoke." How does Beric fit those points?I think it's The Hound.

The talk about Beric being nothing special is what suggested it to me; I think he's being revived because, while he is unremarkable, his job is to steer the Hound towards fulfilling the prophecy.

If you think about it Sandor as we know him now was figuratively born amongst salt and smoke. At the battle of the blackwater, the sea being literally on fire was what caused him to abandon his old ways and start upon a path to redemption. 

I think his story will involve him turning towards worshipping the Lord of Light. I think it will probably culminate in Beric dying in battle, maybe through dragon fire, and the Hound finally getting over his fear of fire, walking in to the flames and taking Beric's sword.

Plus the guy with the flaming sword turning out to actually be the guy who was prophesied to wield a flaming sword seems way too obvious. I'm starting to think that Azor Ahai is less a fixed person and more an amorphous celestial force that floats sporadically through the realm. If that were the case, Beric doesn't have to have been born in salt and smoke (how would JS fit that description.. or anyone for that matter?)

However, if we were to follow your thought, perhaps George is being metaphorical. Dondarrion was after all born in Dorne within a castle made of basalt volcanic rock.

Regardless I would be more likely to say that AA could be born into Beric directly on the battlefield as he is presented Lightbringer among fire, salt, and smoke.I think you're close but not quite right on. 

Honestly, *your post still makes the assumption that AA is a specific person*. It just attempts to explain the multiple people that might be AA by saying AA changes or floats between different people. 

But, I think the community needs to prepare itself for the more likely answer. 

It's entirely possible, I would say almost certain, that we'll never get a definite answer as to who AA is. 

GRRM will leave it purposely ambiguous, and even once the last book is released people will still be asking questions about what he really meant. 

Honestly, that's the mark of a real writer or artist in general. 

He isn't here to spell everything out for you. ASOIAF is GRRMs magnum opus as an artist. 

And every good work of art leaves room for interpretation by the person viewing it. I believe in the books, it is said that Jon's wounds are smoking as he is stabbed, and that Bowen Marsh is crying as he stabs Jon - smoke and salt.Damn, you're probably rightReborn in smoke and salt is not the same as killed in smoke and saltIn the series Dragons are described as "Fire made flesh"

>"Daenerys Targaryen vaulted onto the dragon's back, seized the spear, and ripped it out. The point was half-melted, the iron red-hot, glowing. She flung it aside. Drogon twisted under her, his muscles rippling as he gathered his strength." (ADWD Daenerys IX)

If anything, Dragons are the most hot-blooded of all creatures on Planetos.Hell no, they're fire made flesh. When Drogon takes a spear in the back in the fighting pits of Mereen his wound smokes and his blood steams.I don't think anything flies well in a wintery storm.
It will probably be how at least one dragon will die. Grounded by Storm and then swarmed by (Giant) zombies.There are no cold blooded flying animals to my knowledge. They are magical creatures that represent fire. I wouldn't think too deeply about their physiology. They are magic.Interesting theory. Ned was killed with Ice, but I'm not coming up with anyone else off the top of my head.100%I thought of that when I was writing the theory and changed it to specifically be about stabbing in the heart because Ned's spirit seems to return to the crypts when he dies. That's the day Hodor is afraid to go down there and Rickon freaks out.

Ned executes the deserter with Ice and Jon kills Slynt and the Halfhand with Longclaw, probably some others.
For as awesome as Valyrian steel is, we don't see it used often.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Similar question asked earlier: https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6ntodm/spoilers_extended_where_was_edmure/Because D&D don't care about logistics, logic or sound military tactics. At this point, the show is just pretty people delivering dumbed down exposition with a dragon-sized portions violence porn. The latest Preston Jacobs video does a great job of breaking down just how monumentally and truly stupid the plot has become. It really is absurd. 

I held out hope that with the extra long wait and reaction from last season, D&D might actually get the story together, but nah. It's just gonna be Emo Jon, Sassy Sansa, Angry Arya and Demolition Dany from here on out :/ Something that bugs me is that Dragonstone has been unmanned since Stannis left over 2 seasons ago. IT'S A GIANT ISLAND FORTRESS. What the hell, seriously.>Second, people are underestimating the distances involved here. Here's a map of the known world. Using this as a base, you can use this guide to develop an understanding of distances on that map.

>It appears the distance between Sharp Point and Dragonstone is about 100 miles. I know these are big fleets, but if Dany were already docked at Dragonstone, Euron's fleet could have been anywhere up to 100 miles away. It makes sense to avoid Dragonstone as well. As far as they know nobody is there, but why take the chance?

There's still the issue that Danys fleet is *also* large and wboth sides would have scouting ships going around to make sure they don't get surprised. 

There might be a lot of distance between the two, but that's a failure on both navies to have missed the other giant armada of ships, esp. for the one who is going to now be attacking from within the bay. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Why didn't Euron take it with his fleet? Why would he leave it for Dany, if it was abandoned as he sailed by it? Yeah, this was pretty strange. In the books there is still a small garrison loyal to Stannis holding the castle, I think a small skirmish between Targaryen and Baratheon forces, or even having the garrison surrender at the sight of dragons would have been far better than an entire armada waltzing in without seeing a single soul.[Dragonstone](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/File:Crownlands.png) is actually well north of Kings Landing, so conceivably if Dany's fleet headed straight to the eastern shore of DragonStone, Euron's fleet could slip into Blackwater Bay from the South (where they would be coming from) without the two fleets crossing paths. In the real world a fleet that big would have scout ships that would never allow another fleet to get that close, but then again maybe Euron's scouts spotted Dany's fleet and that's why he is so confident in being able to grab a gift for Cersei.The scouting ships bit is something I overlooked, and a good point. But I think given the disparity of timing and the overlooked distances it can be understood. Tough to imagine both fleets went through the Stepstones in the same month and word didn't travel. 

But at the same time, it seems Euron went through first, and we haven't really  seen enough of Dany post-Stepstones to know what she's aware of. It's definitely feasible that Euron is unaware that Dany has arrived. He's likely aware shortly after, but we haven't seen him since before she arrived. So he likely has scouts in his rear watching the entrances to the Blackwater. I would say the naval battle from the trailer is likely to happen in the next episode or two. 

Personally, even if it's just good, old-fashioned television magic, I'm not really that bothered by it. The thought did come to me as I was watching but when people complain about stuff like this it makes me wonder why they are even watching the show at all. It's meant to be entertainment, and you'll only enjoy it if you allow yourself to. I'm a *huge* fan of the books and sometimes I hate that we're getting the watered-down version of the story first, but it's better than just reading the spoilers on facebook or something IMO. That's what I'm saying, it's incredibly stupid. Not very surprising considering the writing for show Euron though.There could have been a dozen guys sitting in the throne room that could have taken out Dany and her entire leadership in about 30 seconds. Just no sense at all.Yeah, it has been really fun to read the comments in multiple threads doing massive amounts of work to make the abandonment somehow make sense lol. More thoughtful explanations here by far than it appears D&D gave this whole situation. 

The Lannisters or Euron would have taken it if it were really abandoned. But hell, Euron has his leather hotpants stuffed with huge cock, and Jaime is fucking brainless at this point, so I guess it makes sense...Yeah, the abandonment of Dragonstone makes zero sense whatsoever. There is literally no reason not to have someone there for over 2 seasons. Logically, it's *the best* staging area for an attack on Kings Landing. That's *literally what it was 300 years ago.*

Sometimes, it all just comes down to bad writing.Sometimes, it all just comes down to bad writing.

So often its kinda depressing. If you are a PJ fan, his first episode review of the season is up. He is especially fierce lol, I think Night King is gonna have an aneurism. Definitely brings up Dragonstone, you'll like it.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RhSj4dOTM9QI watched it.. it's brutal, but pretty much exactly what I expected from him. I think PJ is vocal about all the opinions we have that we won't say aloud. But then you watch some other GoT youtubers, and they're the complete opposite.Yeah, it is so risky around here, especially during the show season, to really say what you think lol;) PJ takes so much shit for being honest, and its in defense of a story people claim to love, I don't get it. If more people with a voice were willing to stop licking D&D anus the show might actually improve under pressure, to the benefit of us all. Right?

As far as youtubers, I think monetization has fucked it up bad. All the popular GoT channels risk losing money if they don't slobber constantly over the show and honeypot every stupid D&D decision. PJ doesn't need the money, he works for love, so he can be honest and say what he thinks. Mad respect for that.

Edit: I've been browsing the channels, before the season opened, using the Arya/Wolverine episode as a litmus test. Anybody who tries to explain that away is a lost cause, fuck 'em, never need to watch anything they say ever again.Well, I don't think that pressure from the fans would ever be enough for them to do better with the writing, considering the series is almost over, and there's no book material to go on.

I'm not sure it's about monetization, because there are fans who generally enjoy everything the show has done. There are very few I've found who are vocal about their criticisms, but PJ still has so much interesting content that even as someone who still enjoys the show, I find him refreshing.

What Arya/Wolverine episode?> Well, I don't think that pressure from the fans would ever be enough for them to do better with the writing, considering the series is almost over, and there's no book material to go on.

D&D and the writers definitely do care what critics think, and on some things it has made a difference in the writing. But it has slacked off a lot, many of the people who used to write about the show no longer do. So, its a lot of cheerleaders at times. Thesw last two seasons are massively important to the writers and their reputations, honest critiques in good faith really could make a difference. If they are made.

> I'm not sure it's about monetization, because there are fans who generally enjoy everything the show has done. There are very few I've found who are vocal about their criticisms, but PJ still has so much interesting content that even as someone who still enjoys the show, I find him refreshing.
> What Arya/Wolverine episode?

What I meant was, so many show fans who subscribe to the youtubers would be seriously pissed off if they heard criticisms, so that means lost subscribers and angry comments lol. And a lot of the youtubers don't want any of that so stick with nothing but praise, even when it is totally unwarranted.

The Arya episode where she survives the stabbing and the filthy water and does the whole parkour sequence through Braavos chased by Waif the Terminator. Episode 8 of last season.Be patient. There are two men alive that knows what happened. Naturally, Little Finger was there. However, there is one other person that witnessed everything: 

> **Sandor Clegane**'s first cut took off Cayn's sword hand at the wrist; his second drove him to his knees and opened him from shoulder to breastbone.
As his men died around him, Littlefinger slid Ned's dagger from its sheath and shoved it up under his chin. His smile was apologetic. "I did warn you not to trust me, you know."


Jon nor Sansa is aware of what occurred. However, Sandor does know and he is headed north. You will get your scene after Sandor speaks. > This argument assumes that Sansa knows Littlefinger put a knife to her fathers throat

This is the problem of this argument.Sansa obviously doesn't know... Why do you assume she does
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Well using her own words that she freely uses to accuse other people, that makes her "stupid" Wait whatYeah Sansa called Ned and rob stupid. But they weren't stupid. (Ok Robb was kinda stupid) they were just ignorant to certain facts. And did what they believed was best. Wasn't stupid. So if Sansa is ignorant, then I wish I could tell her how stupid that makes her Oh I think I understood that part, I just didn't get what it had to do with her not knowing about LF betraying Ned. Idk if I'd say *that* makes her stupid, though she's certainly made a ton of other dumb decisions throughout the series, which absolutely does make her stupid to an extent.I assumed it was because he and Tyrion are somewhat used to the Westerosi weather and colder climate. Whereas the others are not? (Tyrion has wore similar outfits to this in the past)
However winter is coming to the south and they will also need to wrap up soon.I take him literally when he said he serves the realm - not the ruler.I just assume that Black is a good war colour.Seasons 1-5 amazing fantasy outfits

Seasons 6-7 sponsored by fucking hot topic I guess

Honestly how soon to arya gets a fucking nightmare before Christmas tee shirt, the black leather everything is bothering me. He doesnt like to wear leather. It chafes his mer-skin.Great attention to detail. Take my upvote.> the black leather everything is bothering me
  
Thank you! Agreed!!
And everyone was shocked.Where are my piratebay bros at? > The hour-long Thrones return, titled “Dragonstone,” earned rave reviews from critics (read our deep-dive recap) and currently has the show’s first 100 percent score for a season premiere on Rotten Tomatoes. 

Uh... Hype letting your reviews get clouded there? Was this really the best game of thrones episode EVER made?People only watched to ser Ed Sheeran's mutty face next to Arya"Piracy is killing tv shows!"this doesn't surprise me at all. i don't think it's any stretch of the imagination to call GOT the biggest thing on the little screen (ever) and considering the long-time fan base have waited for this episode for over a year, it doesn't strike me as shocking that so many of us were chomping at the bit to watch it ASAP! I hope HBO doesn't think that it was Ed Sheeran who made the numbers so good.  The finale might end up with Greyworm meeting his long lost brother, Bruno Mars.As someone in the UK I am so happy with now TV having sky Atlantic. Every year me and the wife love watching got!Is HBO now, like a cheaper Netflix version of HBO? 

Edit: I don't think I can do 15 a month just to watch game of thrones in higher quality. That many people streaming and I have yet to see a single person that had a problem with streaming it. That is the most impressive part.Who else thought Aria was about to murder these Lannister footmen, before they showed her their humanity?And then there’s all those people who pirated it. I stopped watching GoT after that scene where they had two naked women making out and then immediately followed it up with traumatic penis removal. It was so insulting to the audience and tasteless, the final straw on the pointless tittie for me. I didn't come back until this season after some reliable friends told me it improved ("bad pussy" aside). Caught up on the last season.

I wonder if I'm an outlier or if other people are coming back the same way. HBO improving streaming is probably a more likely explanation for the numbers increase.

Editing to clarify: I don't have a problem with nudity generally. I don't have a problem with depictions of sexual violence. But the *way* they approached these subjects both made no sense and seemed exploitative. And I didn't demand the show quit doing it, I simply stopped watching because I found it distracting and unpleasant.

I just don't need to see a sexy lesbian scene while a man's dick is being cut off. Your mileage may vary I guess, but I'm surprised this is so offensive to people.Too bad the episode itself was lame fan service and the dialogue sounded like it was written by twelve year olds.I wonder how much of this is actually due to the improvements in HBO Now as a product rather than the show actually being more appealing.Annnnnd that's why they are developing another series in the GoT universe. 


Please be a Hedge Knight series..... I am honestly surprised by such a large surge.it was alright. Has there ever been a phenomenon like this show? Did The Sopranos get anywhere close when it was airing ? Lost? MASH maybe? Smashing.What happen to that crowd that quit the show and said people will stop watching?FYI, people often say "ratings" when they mean viewership. Let me explain:

1. Ratings are a measure of demographics that advertisers pay for.

2. HBO doesn't have advertisers so they don't care about ratings.

3. Viewership is the total amount of people watching a show, regardless of 18-49 year olds watching (which is what advertisers pay for).

Once HBO counts up all the views (I think they count for the whole month), it will probably be around 27 million for the episode.When/if the asoiaf books are done, they will be regarded as the greatest scifi fantasy books ever written. I bet a lot of the jump can be attributed to how much more accessible it is now (legally). Good on HBO for breaking free of the cable companies, turns out people will pay reasonable prices for great content.I can also confirm that records were broken on a certain Slaver's Bay website from Sweden. 


Of course, I watched it on Sky Atlantic.Well, they made us wait a lot longer than usual so we all just had to watch it as soon as possible.**TL;DR:**

16.1 million viewers (including repeats and streaming and DVR)

50 percent increase from last year’s opener

10.1 million viewers (if you don't include streaming and DVR) -- which is still more than the most watched episode ever

Can someone comment the rating for us too lazy to read it?For the crazy streaming numbers they had, I had a great experience with Now. 

Those execs have to be shitting their pants over what comes after this...Whaaaaat? wow, just wow...

Game of Thrones really is a phenomenon, i couldn't be more happy to be alive during a time in which Game of Thrones is ruling the TV.They were at Dragonstone, but disappeared to make Team Dany's entrance awesome.Blackwater BayThat score means that 100% of the critics they index liked the show. It doesn't mean 10/10.Ed Sheeran was in it? Hbo is the more expensive yet limited selection to Netflix... >  I don't think I can do 15 a month just to watch game of thrones in higher quality.

There are many, many high-quality shows on HBO.Too bad it's not available in Canada. I'm forced to subscribe to a cable service for one show or the TMN GO app that's far less reliable as a streaming service. I know there's other ways to watch VODs but if you want it live in high quality, these seem to be the only option.It's full, on demand, streaming access to ALL HBO content. YesI did! I have HBO Now on a Roku TV and I couldn't start it until 8:45 because of buffering constantly. Do guest rights apply if she takes their food and drink but isn't under their roof?who says she still won't? they've already seen her Arya*Arya[removed]What is that supposed to mean?  "Lame fan service"!?  Like what, for instance?  Can you actually back that up with concrete examples, or are you just trying to be edgy?

The episode didn't blow me away, but then again, I didn't expect it to.  It's the first damn episode of the season, for fuck's sake.  But "lame fan service"?  Please.The shows fandom has been increasing exponentially every year also. I know lots of people who didn't watched GOT but around s6 they started watching.>Please be a Hedge Knight series.....

Sorry, GRRM has already confirmed no Dunk and Egg spin off. The reason is that he is still planning to write several D&E novellas after ADOS, and he does not want his D&E plans to be spoiled by the show (which is what is already happening with Game of Thrones).We need the dance of dragons Pretty sure I read its not hedge knightMake it an anthology series. Each season is a self-contained story. Aegon's Conquest one season, Blackfyre rebellion the next, etcRobert's Rebellion would easily be 3 seasons.There's a decent lull in television in general currently.I didn't start watching till last summer. I binged watched it then quit tv cause nothing was as good then went back and binged watched it again this last spring. Everyone said it was good I don't know why it took me so long to get started. For the longest time I was just annoyed that everyone was talking about how good it is and that I should watch itSeinfeldThe Walking Dead is at its lowest ratings wise in a while and the lowest watched episode is still only about 10 million so yeah.Yea lots actually. The Walking Dead for a still running show for example.

Someone else mentioned Lost. MASH was absolutely massive. 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_most_watched_television_broadcasts#United_States

Some of these show makes 16 million look like chump change.
I don't know the numbers but I'd guess Lost would come close. The last couple of seasons we're *huge.*This sub in no way represents the majority.The amount of mainstream audience viewers gained will far outnumber any vocal reddit minority even if those people have a point and were true to their word. In fact, it may precisely be because they have point that the show continues to grow in popularity. Why would anyone quit after the last season? I thought the average last season was 25 million when everything was tallied. Since there was such a large increase this time, it could eclipse 30 million.

ASOIAF has nothing to do with sci-fi.No. That honor goes to Tolkein.

I wouldn't label ASOIF as Sci-fi. Um, no. For one thing (fantasy), LOTR, and I don't even like them. For another thing (SciFi), Dune.'Greatest' is obviously subjective, but since we're talking about viewership/readership in this thread, asoiaf isn't even the biggest in the past 2 decades. The harry potter franchise blows asoiaf out of the water.

asoiaf doesn't have the be the greatest in order for it to be successful or enjoyable though, so let's leave those arguments aside.LOTR will hold that honor forever honestly. It was the catalyst of fantasy
I didn't hear about HBO now until after several episodes last season, so I didn't watch the premiere live. I previously had to either find a friend with HBO, or find less-than-legal means to watch it. I have neither cable nor a TV nor do I want either. I now have HBO Now, and for about $30 I can watch this season completely legally on my own computer.With a 30 day free trial, then auto-renew with my Google account which has tons of Google Play credit on it, it's nice to watch this season for free on HBO Now.Yep. This was the first episode of Game of Thrones I've ever watched through legal means.Except in Australia. And then the cable service Foxtel went down because of 'unexpected high demand'... LolNew era of tv. The big networks resist the change to a streaming format, but it is happening and it is going to go fast now. As ad revenues on broadcast tv decline, the quality of content will go with it and drive even more viewers to streaming.Since I found out that I can get GoT through Sky Ticket I haven't looked back towards the alternative. Much more convenient (and less morally stressful if you're inclined that way) and imo it's a fair price even if I just want to watch GoT.50% increase is huge when it's been going on that long. I'm not surprised it's stayed level because the quality has stayed good and a viewers will want to see how it ends. But an increase of that level is massive.Just for the sake of comparison to other big shows, does anybody know what the biggest audience for an episode of the Walking Dead's most recent season was? Now include the people who pirated ithttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Template:Game_of_Thrones_ratingsSame here, I used the HBO Now on my PS4 and not a single problem.I bet you their pissed that this or next season isn't 10 epsWestworld!I was streaming HBONow on Xbox one and it froze completely at 8pm PST. I had to call cable company and subscribe to HBO.  I had a bunch of people over and didn't want to ruin the night.

Needless to say I was pretty pissed. I used to pirate GoT because I refuse to pay for cable or satellite. Now that HBO lives in 2017, I gladly pay for NOW. And I'm actually really liking it - it's somewhat competitive with Netflix. I will likely pay for both. 

See how that's done, content providers? Meet me on my level, let me pay you directly, and I'll gladly pay. Piracy isn't about getting it for free, it's about avoiding bullshit. I pay for Go, it didn't work, three hours after the episode went live it was still not working. The 1080p torrent usually is already up by that time and takes 10 minutes to download...

:(Mine was pretty bad for the first half of the episode.Really wish I could give kudos to the software and infrastructure guys that made it happen. Had a flawless experience.It didn't show up for me until around 9:10 or so. But it was flawless after it finally showed up for me.quality dropped halfway and i tried refreshing a few times but nothing worked. i really hate when i don't have options to force a quality.I borrowed my brother's account for Dish to watch HBO Go, but dish's account authentication was apparently  down so I could not use it (I had used it a week ago, so it does work), ended up signing up for the free hbo now trial through Amazon.i loaded it on hbonow as soon as it was up, which was like 8:57 EST, and the only stutters were in the"previously" segment. the episode itself was crystal clear. super impressed, especially after how it lagged through last year's premiereI used the app on my crappy phone that has crappy service. Not a single issue the entire episodeI used the Amazon Xbox app and it was also flawless. Streaming isn't the future it's the present.I watched last season on about a 20 min delay on HBO Now because it seemed to have less buffering sessions. I started it on time and there wasnt a single delay. I'm glad they spent some time and money updating their servers.No shit, I was reloading my app constantly til the episode was up, and it loaded immediately once it got posted. Way better than last year's premiereMy experience on HBO Go was shoddy, now my friend is going to buy HBO again to watch it the old fashioned way.My stream from NOW was flawless all night. If only we could get the fucking book now...I wonder if it'll end up being remade again in our lifetime.   30-40 years down the line tends to feel about right.Can't believe that Danny led her party into Dragonstone he was a lannister towards the end.  I wouldn't have noticed either if the internet hadn't freaked about itThat's a no for me then.Like what?No *Tales from the Crypt* though D:Would've been fun to see Arya wear Ed Sheeran's face and win a Grammy.[removed]For some people fan service means something good happened to a character.She literally killed every Frey. She somehow took freys head off, hid the body, and put it on her face then called all the freys together and poisoned them. Then she takes her mask off and does a dumb little slow walk through the dead people? I literally knew exactly what was going on the second I saw them take the drinks out to everybody. It was unrealistic and poorly narrated. The whole episode was fan fiction. Brienne and tormund, Arya and the freys, Ed Sheeran and Arya, Lynna Mormont being the fierce young token girl telling off all the older men. The episode was trash, straight up. It looks like they took every suggestion they heard shouted at them on Reddit forums and on twitter just to please people. Not to write a good story. > after ADOS

LOLLol he isn't planning to write shit.It has been 2,197 days since the release of ADWD. I have very little confidence that I will ever read ADOS.As far as I've read it has no plan yet on topic. Just rumors. Sure. But I just want them to adapt the Hedge Knight books the most. Bran delving into Tower of Joy memories was a quasi-pilot for research into prequel spinoffs imo.But this is a show on its seventh season, and it is airing during summer, which usually has lower ratings.Have you seen *Westworld*? You're probably going to want to get on that.> I binged watched it then quit tv cause nothing was as good

Watch *The Wire* on HBO NowTo be fair, just comparing ratings isn't really fair with the old shows. At their time, there was no delayed viewing except for repeats, no pirating, no streaming and such, the landscape has changed a lot. No show can reach those levels on live TV first airing ever again.I think Game of Thrones is by far the biggest US show when you consider global appeal though. Most people in the countries I've lived in haven't even heard of many of those shows, but everyone adores Game of Thrones.

Also, there has never been anything that came close to being as big as Game of Thrones is on premium television.Lost and probably plenty of other network TV shows have higher viewership than GoT. Comparing a big 4 broadcast network show to a premium cable is an apples and oranges comparison.

The very first episode of Lost had 18 million viewers, compared to GoT's record breaking 16 million.Last season was great for if you like big battles and stuff but story wise it took a dive compared to earlier seasons. This one though is looking better.[deleted]Reddit karma.It's possible.It isn't a pure science-fiction work, sure, but there may be science-fiction elements. GRRM has said that something about the seasons being tied to some astronomical phenomenon, which is science-fictiony. Also, [this theory](http://imgur.com/a/VXADz) gave me something to think about.See, for sci-fi, I'd go with Asimov. I don't know whether the robot novels or the Foundation series is the pick, though. Dune was incredible. I agree. I just don't see how it measures up to asoiaf for drama. Red wedding. Ned Stark being beheaded. Bran being the last greenseer. Purple wedding. Littlefinger. The history of westeros. The valyrian freehold. Asshai. Theres too much.

As DUNE expands its books it starts to getting pretty silly. Heretics. Chapterhouse. Even Lord Emperor. 

What about Arthurian legend? The first 3 books of asoiaf cast a shadow darker than mordor. Incredible depth and story telling. Brilliant adumbration. Its simply an incredible achievement. LOTR is great, I just feel asoiaf is in a league of its own.Too bad it's not available in canadaThat's my situation too lol I tried to watch it legally but the Foxtel app crashed so back to the high seas I went. You'd think somebody would notice. "Bitch Game of Thrones is premiering tonight this is in no way unexpected."I was one of the fools who signed up 20 mins before the start of the show to an error message. I'd consider putting on the pirate hat again if it continues to happen after the free trial is over.  Servers for HBO Go in South/Latin America were also down, I feel your pain.Unexpected.... Hang on, if only they could predict maximum load by.... Number of paid accounts. *Le sigh*Foxtel is absolutely ridiculous. First you have to buy the thing without the extra content, which only contains reality shows, fishing and news in multiple languages. Then if you want to buy anything interesting, like Game of Thrones, you have to buy the Drama Pack, which is $25. That's insane compared to the $15 it cost to buy from HBO directly. The Drama Pack doesn't even have that interesting shows. The majority of them are HBO shows. Yet, people still throw their money away at this shit, horrible service because no other ones exist. It's a shame that as soon as we start getting cable channels a la carte the telicom people want to try that package bullshit with websites. I tell you if they start charging for web porn like they do with cable (28 minute for only $15.99!) heads will roll.Correct me if i'm wrong but won't advertisers just start showing ads on the streaming services?Yeah, I just got sky ticket for this. 2€ for both July and august. Then I can cancel it again. If these numbers are not weirdly inflated by the DVR/HBO Now streams, they would be *outrageous*. Walking Dead's highest rated episode was 17.3M, but it was on a channel far more widely owned.

If HBO had anything in the range of 16M viewers, holy shit, for a premium TV channel, that is bananas. That's fully acknowledging the Walking Dead had crazy ratings as well - but these would be even crazier.It's sad that for one of my favorite shows I've been reduced to reading the synopsis instead of actually watching it Highest was the premiere at 17.03 and lowest was 10.16.And the official figures worlwide. I would just love to know the total true audience (illegal and legal) of the show.That's about 24 million additional viewers if we factor in Australia.Dude I'm all for pirating movies and illegally streaming sports, but c'mon man everybody who wants to watch GoT should at least have HBO Now. Now is affordable and loaded with all of HBO's fucking amazing list of programs, plus several good movies. Our bullshit generation kept complaining that we wanted good programming but didn't want to pay for 500 channels... well this is the goddamn answer. The more people that use Now will inspire more/better from HBO, but it will also drive the market to keep moving away from standard cable. Jesus if you can't afford Now, find a few friends and split it (I think 2 can watch simultaneously, so if you have more than 2 just start a group chat and pick who's watching when). 

Tl;dr quit being fucking mooches.  

EDIT: Apparently there are several countries that don't offer Now like UK and Prison Island. I suggest you protest. Whoa I never thought of using a nielson type rating that includes estimates of pirated copies over 24 hours. That's like, a trillion people![removed]Damn we're at roughly 7 billion if we include the pirates!Damn, 85 million people.Wow. Not even Jon's resurrection episode comes close, and that was a huge pop culture talking point. You can see the little dent that Season 5 had :(Seven gods, that's so fucking high. Has something changed in how they calculate viewers? Going from 8-9 million viewers to 20 is a quantum leap...Holy shit. that sucks dudeI had this same problem through my family hbo/hbogo account.
Very frustrating until I just gave up and streamed it from my phone (don't know why it worked there but not on Apple TV).
Quality wasn't stellar but at least minimal buffering.I watched it on my iphone 7 hooked up to my google fiber gigabit connection. Not sure why any of you had problems I didn't 🤗Maybe they got DJ Khaled to make a phone call to Apple to authorize more servers and stuffThey probably switched over to an auto scaling cloud solution like AWS or Azure.It seems like everyone that used someone's Hbo Go login didn't do well. HBO Now and Amazon HBO channel did perfect Can they please just add 4K now? They're lagging behind Amazon and Netflix. Mine was perfect on my xbox.I used Amazon Prime's HBO channel. Flawless qualityThe whole experience was smooth, not just the stream. I really liked the UI. God damn I sound like an advertisement but I was impressed It definitely was even before when we were revamping some episodes. It was on point
It took a little bit to start up for me, had one hiccup about five minutes in, and then was flawless. As was my stream from GO...which may or may not be different...I think it's a different app. Were you using the website, or the app?

Because the website is pure trash, it froze on me about 10 times.  As in the video froze and the audio kept playing, not the "buffering" kind of froze.The only issue I had was when I jumped up out of my seat then came back down and landed on my roku remote. Dumped to the homescreen, but I had it back in seconds with no issue.Guy who played Robb could be Walder Frey. :Dwhy would you want that. There are so many other stories that should also be told.It will get remade... but on BroadwayThe real question is, will the series remake be completed before GRRM finishes the books.I want a girl meets world style remake 30 years later with Lyana Mormont as a middle aged woman dealing with Jon, Dany, Sansa's children et Al who are starting to fight and fracture the realm again as the white walkers start to be forgottenI hope if it does that they do an animated adaptation that is more faithful to the books.Not sure why we'd get one. The CGI and everything looks good enough and its high enough budget that we really couldn't ask for much else.30-40 years? We're lucky if the books are finished by then.I can't imagine they'd get remakes even in that time. To me that'd be like Star Wars Original Trilogy getting a remake. 40 years ago THIS YEAR was A New Hope. No one in their right mind TODAY would want to remake that. Of course Star Wars has had staying power over the last 40 years but I imagine the impact of GoT will be big enough to still have it untouchable for a while.

There are a few series that are so ingrained in pop culture I imagine that it'd be very hard to completely remake them even in 30-40 years (or at least within the lifetime of the directors/creators). IMO Star Wars, Harry Potter, and LotR are all in this category.Give it the Full Metal Alchemist: Brotherhood treatment and have it follow the books closer.   Just found the scene. Good singing voice, weird cameo. Westworld, Six Feet Under, The Night Of, True Detective, The Wire, Silicon Valley,  Veep, Sopranos, Rome, Leftovers,  Angels in America... HBO shows are generally amazingDamn, you're right. I wonder why.Demon knight is my jam[removed]It's part of the guide to hatewatching:

Something good happens to protagonist = Fan service

Something bad happens to a protagonist = Shock value Username checks out.Well, then I trust you won't be watching anymore.  So...bye.  Sorry they didn't deliver exactly what you wanted from it.Do you even like the show?Finally get to see onscreen Rhaegar.  :OYup but right after a GoT binging I thing it may have ruined the experience. Game of Thrones is seemingly the "most popular tv show of all time," and after looking at the US viewership records, the only explanation is massive global appeal. It's an international phenomenon. The internet (and piracy specifically) let it reach a global audience and now we have this juggernaut.  Well game of thrones is also modern, where things like MASH is old.Harder to do on HBO thoughWhat?

Last season we got: The resurrection of Jon Snow, the beginning of Sam's journey as a Maester, how the White Walkers were created, Dany bringing the entirety of the Dothraki under her control, Dany SAILING TO FUCKING WESTEROS, the REVEAL OF JON'S PARENTAGE, Starks back in Winterfell, the devastation of the Tyrells and the Faith at the hands of Cersei, the RETURN OF THE FUCKING HOUND.

Season 6 may have been the most important season story-wise we've gotten thus far. Just because we already knew Jon was coming back, who Jon's parents are, and that Dany would eventually make it to Westeros doesn't make those less impactful. They're all huge moments.Idiots who forget that there are really crappy portions of the books as well and only judge the bad parts of the show Wow, fuck this comment. I'm quitting RedditEh the last 2 seasons had a lot of flaws, and some outright bad/cringey scenes. In general the writing can be very lazy/poor in terms of plot, and this combined with general consolidation of the plot has made a lot of characters motivation and behavior unclear or illogical.

That said there's still much to enjoy, especially visually, and since its an ensemble cast theres usually at least a few characters who's  scenes or arcs are still very enjoyable.

Still to pretend it's flawless is silly, and I'm still pretty salty about the books not getting to finish the story.> GRRM has said that something about the seasons being tied to some astronomical phenomenon

Actually he's said that that has absolutely nothing to do with it, and that the explanation is purely magical. lol no dude, even if that were the case that wouldn't make it sci-fi at all. If someone has sex in a story it's not suddenly a romance novel. If a character says something funny it doesn't become a comedy.Battlestar Galactica is my sci-fi... Does that count?> I don't know whether the robot novels or the Foundation series is the pick, though. 

Literature wise, I prefer Foundation. In story wise, they're actually the same thing. The Robot series precedes the foundation series canonically. Ahem, *God*-Emperor, you heathen!/s

Ned Stark beheaded? Duke Leto's murder-suicide. Bran the last greenseer? Paul, the Messiah and Kwisatz Haderach. Leto the preborn and sandworm hybrid God-Emperor. Littlefinger? Bene Gesserit, The Guild, Tleilaxu, Duncan Idaho-Hayt. Purple Wedding? The battle of Arakeen and the deaths of The Baron and Feyd.

I'll give you the red wedding and some of the historical stuff, though. Dune could always use some more world building...just not from Brian Herbert or Kevin J. Anderson.The first 3 Dune books are what Frank originally planned for. God Emperor is incredible. The last two he unfortunately never got to write a conclusion for, but we're still good in their own right.

The Dune series as Frank Herbert wrote is the best I've ever read in terms of sci-fi.I feel like LOTR could be written more realistically and just as dark as asoiaf. LOTR could be the telling of a story with all the dark things left out like rape and murder.Disagree.  You cannot beat LOTR because it is THE foundational work.  Elves are elves and dwarves and dwarves because of the characteristics for them that Tolkien popularized.  How can you beat that?Did you file a complaint with Foxtel? Shitty telecomms need to be told like children why they are failing. Foxtel Play has showtime GoT package for $15 which is ok, I guess.  We're pirates for a reason.It's not up to the advertisers. If people like HBO and Netflix can cut out the middleman and get their money straight from the viewers what's the point of bringing in advertisers and pissing off all of your subscribers?Actually I just today realized that it's actually 1€ until end of august, I initially thought it was the usual "1€ for the first month" deal (but even at 11€ it would have been a good deal)Are those to be compared with the 16.1 or the 10.1 number of the Game of Thrones premiere?i have a hard time understanding the success of that show. i've only watched until season 4, but imho the show went from top tier tv in season 1 and got significantly worse every season. meanwhile the audience kept getting ridiculously larger and the fandom kept getting stronger.

that first season by frank darabont was probably one of my favorite seasons of any tv show. i stopped watching religiously sometime during season 3. and completely stopped watching during season 4. i honestly thought the show would be dead by now, but it seems like it only keeps getting biggerThat was probably because of the cliffhanger though..In the UK you have to buy sky. Over here there are 2 / 3 tv "cable" services which are more or less the same with different deals etc, and sky somehow managed to get exclusive rights to hbo. Meaning without an incredibly expensive sky subscription, even if you have one of the generally better imo alternatives, you can't watch it legally. 

For context sky have a lot of other "exclusives" but you can buy those channels as add ons on the alternatives, the add on money then essentially filters down to sky. However their sky Atlantic channel is the only one that they won't let you buy individually, and they insist is exclusively part of their core service. Seems a bit wrong imo since competition laws forced them to share everything else, so they then just created a new channel and moved everything over.

Also fuck Murdoch.

So yeah I already pay for tv but can't get GoT. And I refuse to change over all my subscriptions  (which is tied into internet and phones too) just for GoT, which can be found elsewhere... Australian's can't get HBO now (we have the highest piracy rates in the world). We only have Foxtel who are extremely expensive, but last night I tried to watch it legally and the app crashed so it was easier to pirate it. Australia can't get HBO Now.[removed]I remember last year seeing some numbers on the episodes. They were usually over 100k within a week. Crazy stuffpretty sure euron built 8 billion ships, let alone all the children that were born and immediately grown up in that offseason...The question is, who's the *best* pirate out there?Don't even get started on the space pirates!It easily surpasses that. I wouldn't be surprised if the total number of viewers is a couple of hundreds of mln people.Yeah, Season 5 was clearly the weakest season in terms of viewer response, and in my opinion, overall quality. I've heard "Gods" and I've heard "Seven Hells," but never before have I heard "Seven Gods."Theres only the lord of light There are a few different numbers being thrown around here. The first is Nielsen ratings. That's just live viewings over cable/satellite TV. That was 8 million last season premiere, 10 million this season. 

There's also "live plus same day," which basically includes the premiere at 9, the replay immediately thereafter, people who watched it on a DVR delay before midnight, and people who streamed it before midnight. That's the 16 million number. 

There's also HBO's number for overall viewership, which basically is live, DVR, and streaming within 7 days of the premiere. That's where GOT averaged 25.1 million viewers last year. We don't know that number for the premiere yet, because it hasn't been a week. The hype for this season got absurdly huge, especially since we had a longer wait and the marketing machine did its job fantastically That's a bit misleading lol. That 20.2 was everyone who watched it last night through 1st telecast, rereruns, and streaming. The rest of those numbers are for initial 1st telecast only. That being said, last nights episode had the highest first telecast viewership for the entire show. Season 8 should get a 250 million dollar budget.  Just go fucking nuts.Apparently they're either using or getting assistance from the MLB to make streaming more reasonable. Cause you're loyalYou can log into HBO NOW with your Amazon credentials if you subscribe to HBO through Amazon Channels. IMO it's much more navigable and the streams can be smoother (and if you're watching multiple episodes, NOW doesn't wait until the end of the credits to play the next episode like Channels does).They're different. Now is a standalone streaming service like Netflix while Go is part of the cable subscription that you have.This is exactly what happened to me. Was pissed even though it was free for a month through huluThe website was fine for me and I started streaming around 10 minutes into when the episode started.

The only time I had a problem was when I had to go back to see what was on the hilt of the swords in the Ed Sheeran scene. I had to reload the page because it wouldn't continue. Other than that it worked fine all the way through.It froze like that twice for me and buffered about once every 2 minuets.  4k Netflix worked just fine while I waited for less people to be watching so it wasn't my Internet.360 app worked great for me.I use HBO Now on Roku. No problems. The Now website has always been shitty which is why I stopped using my computer.Used website. Smooth as silk. I linked it to my Amazon prime account then used the ps4 app. Zero hiccupsI used the website and had zero issues.You get what you get if you choose Flash I had no issues at all and I exclusively use the website. Maybe it was your computer or your connection?I used the app on PS4 and it was horrible. Very smooth on the website though.That happened to me once but only for like 10 secondsI used the PS4 app and it worked beautifully. The app on iPad sucked for me hardcore.  The one on my XBox was great.Used the website HBO Now at 6:30 PST / 9:30 EST. No problems at all. Maybe I was just lucky?The app on the firestick.J Bear give you a fright?Close callI would love a high quality animated version. The duels would be way more epic. Right now the 1v1 fights in the show are okay, but it's clearly evident that they're actors fighting and not a real fight with all the weird camera angles and random parrying/swings. Ned vs Dayne, Hound vs Brienne, etc..That's my dream for the series. Because it would make a lot of money. Whether they'd be better films or more "definitive" isn't the bottom line to Hollywood executives. Star Wars is a totally different beast than book to movie adaptations.

Disney is making more Star Wars movies today. They *have* essentially rebooted the franchise. They can make sequels and prequels though because this is a movie franchise - they're making up the story as they go.

LOTR is a classic book series, and they've exhausted the prequel. There aren't any more stories coming. In 30 years, if they want to reboot it, they can't just say "LOTR 4: the next generation". They'll have to remake.Star Wars were films genius. There's a difference between making literally the exact same film again, and adapting a book in a different way. Star Wars is different because they are doing sequels and spin-offs so they still use the franchise. 

LOTR/Hobbit will be redone at some point, they don't have access to any other works of Tolkien and the potential is too big to just let it sleep.

Harry Potter they're doing spin-off too and that's too early but I think a remake is also totally possible in the future (of course 30-40 years from now or maybe less but not right away).

We had 3 different Spider-Man sagas in 15 years after all. Never understimate the remake-love of Hollywood.> I can't imagine they'd get remakes even in that time.

They won't get "remakes", per se, but there *will* be new adaptations. Without question. 30-40 years is probably a conservative estimate, if anything.


> To me that'd be like Star Wars Original Trilogy getting a remake. 40 years ago THIS YEAR was A New Hope. No one in their right mind TODAY would want to remake that.

Not while Lucas is alive, but 20, 30 years after he's gone? Of course they will. They won't be able to help themselves.

I am a HUGE Star Wars fan, but the Force Awakens was basically a remake of A New Hope. It tried to hit all of the same story notes and the plot was remarkably similar.But imagine a spinoff in any one of those franchises (except
LotR, i don't think they can really do a spinoff there) with the kind of technology we'll have at our disposal at that time.Was def weird but an interesting scene showing the humility of the lannistersOnly interested in Westwood and I already saw it. It's not worth the price for me. No kidding, I saw it in the theatre. When I came out, my car door was open, and my new bumping system was gone. Bummer. Movie kicked ass though.You still don't get it. I'm not mad they didn't give me what I wanted, I'm annoyed they tried to cram in every possible meme and fan suggestion they possibly could. 
Arya just killing all the freys, Ed Sheeran singing lannister songs, tormund and brienne, Lyanna Mormont being a feisty little girl meme, poop mintage actually made me laugh, euron acting like Russell brand with cringy shitty dialogue, and then Dany doing her famous "dull blade stare off into the sunset" face for 3 whole minutes at the end of the episode. Just yawn.

 Fans shouldn't accept that. It was a shallow episode. Period. What is there to like?Can people really not understand that the show has become shallow garbage since they have had to make the plot up themselves? Bruh I watch GOT all the time. But season 6 sucked until BOTB and maybe a few good moments like the TOJ and the show has noticeably declined in its story telling and dialogue since season 4 ended. Something changed after season 4 and the show has gotten kinda vanilla and predictable since. Characters just haven't grown since.Might actually get to see him (and Lyanna) this season (through weirwood.net obviously). Damn, that's the only show that has come close for me of scratching the off-season GoT itch.Yes, but consider that almost half of the country watched the mash finale. GOT might need double that (200 million) by the time the final show premiers. >  They're all huge moments.

Yeah, I agree these are all huge moments. What I have problem with is the lead up to such moments. Take Jon's resurrection.  When Jon Snow dies, the first thing that comes in Ser Davos' mind is that "we should bring him back to life!". But why? We had seen no evidence that Davos even knew that people can come back to life. And why did he want to bring him back Jon back? What was Jon to Davos anyway? 

And what about Jon's death? So the brothers kill jon *after* he brings the wildlings south of the wall. Why did they allow him South of the Wall if they were going to kill him anyway? In the book, they do it because of desperation. Jon is taking an army of wildlings south to battle Ramsay while giving Tormund the permission to take as many Watch's men as he wants on a suicide mission to Hardhome.  He had broken the old age tradition of Night's Watch not taking part in the affairs of the realm. They killed him without any sort of planning in a desperate attempt to stop him from doing more damage to the Watch. And still they were crying while doing the act. In the show, their actions didn't any sense.

> Dany bringing the entirety of the Dothraki under her control, Dany SAILING TO FUCKING WESTEROS

Dany is sailing to Westeros after leaving Meereen in the hands of Daario fucking Nahaaris, a sellsword. Whatever happened to the Sons of the Harpy? They were such a big plot problem in season 5 and in season 6 and then they just stop because Yunkai was defeated? Why? What's stopping them from resuming their killing of former slaves. 

Why did the Dothraki start following her instead of killing her for being a witch and burning their Khals? So thousands of men see their leaders burning in a hut and instead of trying to save them, they all, at the same time, bend their knee to a naked witch coming out of the fire. Yeah, that's totally believable. 

Same with Jon becoming king. Why did the northern houses choose a bastard traitor of the Night's Watch who brought Wildlings south of the wall as their king? Do they know that he was resurrected? Why don't they bring it up?  Why didn't Sansa tell Jon about Littlefinger's Army? How can a thousands strong army march upto Winterfell without the Lord of Winterfell having any idea about it?

Last season was all about moving the plot from point A to B with absolutely no buildup between the two. As the show has become popular, the target audience is no longer the people who care about the plot.

[deleted]Pretty much every Sansa chapter.> some outright bad/cringey scenes

Apparently they didn't bother to read the books. That happens there as well. I don't agree with the guy, but I see where he's coming from.I'm not sure if there are books the shows were based on. I would still think Asimov's work is the most important sci-fi literature, discounting dystopian books like 1984 and Fahrenheit 451, as those are lighter on science and heavier on philosophy. Oh yeah. I am pretty sure all his work is canonically linked. He's a phenomenal world-builder. I agree. I loved those books when I was younger. Might give Dune a reread one of these days. GRRM doesnt even utilize those archaic tropes. Elves have been a part of folklore for hundreds of years. Tolkien didnt create them. Isn't that what got you to Australia in the first place?What company is gonna turn down free money? I'm all for the HBO/Netflix and such charging for their service, but some day when they have the user base the ads will pick up. 

I'll watch a 5-30 second ad at the start of a show/movie/episode I want to watch if it comes to it, but if they start introducing commercial breaks despite users paying for the service I'm going back to pirating. 

That being said, if we would even get the option to pay a small increase for the subscription to see absolutely zero advertising content I'm all for that too. But the ad-included price should be pretty damn low if they are going to advertise on it.Netflix trialed adverts in some regions but people responded very negatively to it. I would stop paying for it if I had to sit through ads to be honest. I'm happy to pay for a service that is beneficial to me, not one that blatantly wants to make as much money as possible at my expense. Looking at you Hulu Dont forget amazon, they're killing it with streaming right now, too. Can't say the same for those fuckers at Hulu. Yes, even at 11€ it is a good deal. If you startend it at the beginning of July it would only cost 2€ for everything. It just depends on when you started the subscription.Yup, same here. Stopped caring about the cast as they go from prison to farm to homestead to another homesteadShows like the Big Bang Theory pull huge audiences too. Shows like that are designed to appeal to as many people as possible, they're not designed to be good shows. You're not their target audience. I have watched it through season 6 (my cable channel does not have AMC so I have to wait for it on Netflix), and I think after Season 3 it just felt stagnant.  Same basic plot and problems but with more people and outrageous gimmicks with no end game in sight, but I also feel that about the comic too.  Its not a horrible show and I watch it mainly to see how it will end.
I feel like they do well with lower socioeconomic class audiences for some reason. Most of my well-off friends have stopped watching since season three, but my poorer friends are rabid fans. I still watch it because I hate myself apparently, but I don't enjoy it.It's similar to why I keep buying scratch tickets, they are both always so close to making me happy that I keep thinking "ah, so close, maybe next time!"By appealing to a broader fanbase they're able to maximise their sales.

See the lyrics to Moment of Clarity by Jay-Z. It encapsulates the trajectory of the walking dead and anything else that's popularity is inversely proportional to its quality.Rememebr tho, TWD is basic cable. GOT is subscriber based premium cable. AMC is in like 3x the households of HBO Those are pretty much my exact thoughts on Game of Thrones, right down to which season I checked out on.I still watch TWD because my wife makes me but it really is terrible. I feel like they did some research that showed that audiences like tense situations while people hold people at gunpoint and kidnapping. Thats all that show is. TWD is like an abusive relationship.What is dead may never die?> i have a hard time understanding the success of that show. i've only watched until season 4, but imho the show went from top tier tv in season 1 and got significantly worse every season. meanwhile the audience kept getting ridiculously larger and the fandom kept getting stronger.

Are you sure you aren't describing Game of Thrones?DeletedAs someone who's seen roughly every episode twice, and hates the show, I can tell you I just watch it because I'm curious.  It never ceases to entertain me and make me want to yell at my tv or laugh at how ridiculous its become.   The inconsistencies and convenient plot points drive me nuts.  Some of the special effects or just interesting takes on what could happen can be genuinely cool. 

Tldr- I hate watch the show for entertainment. I stopped watching the show after the premiere. Didn't miss an episode prior to that one. I know quite a few people who did the same. I am interested to see how the numbers are effected (if at all) next season. Why is that? I had that same problem last season and I'm in the US. This year I paid extra on my Amazon prime account. I'm glad that's an option now. I don't have cable because it's super expensive. Give me a way to stream things and I'll pay for it. Don't give me that option and I'll find another way. no that's what happens when people are cheap asses and don't want to pay for things. The reason HBO can afford to pay millions of dollars per episode of game of thrones is because they get a lot of money from those premium cable packages. 

A high cost for something is not an excuse to pirate it.Hell many people in the US it didn't stream for.Here in the Nordics we have just that. HBO Nordic. 99 kr a month and the episode dropped the exact same time as the in US with zero issues (for me at least).HBO GO died on the premiere anyways.[removed]Not surprised. And I'm talking only one torrenting site. Jack Sparrow, duh.Salad Door Sean*Captain* Jack Sparrow of course!Captain Flint from Black Sails Everyone knows that Buggy-sama will be the Pirate King.Hint: Not show!Euron.Gotta watch out for space herpes. Man now I'm just imagining aliens watching human shows. Wonder what they would think.Damn we're at roughly eleventy quadrillian if we include the space pirates!200 million people huh-

...in a country with 321 million- that's quite a percentage there...That's an outrageous estimate. Pirating in the US probably adds 1-2 million to the number, and that's being very generous. Pirating isn't very mainstream when you think of the American general population.I had to pirate it because HBO Go decided it was a good thing to just die until the next day.

Guess who's not gonna keep paying the subscription...Is this based on a haunch or actual numbers? Don't wanna be a dick, just want to see some stats.Minus Hardhome and the finale, there weren't really any memorable episodes from Season 5.Also the effect of the end approaches probably increases people catching up. I know several people that prefers to watch shows when they are completed or near the end.It's kind of funny because we had several people on here claim there was little hype where they were. Of course that usually just tells us more about the kind of people they are surrounded by.Isn't this the last season?Miguel Sapochnik should direct 3 episodesThat changes everything! 

Prime has some of the least friendly UXHBO GO works like NOW for Latin America,it was a complete shitshow.Right, just wondering whether or not you could assume GO was working if and only if NOW was working.I couldn't watch it (or anything on HBO Now) without it stopping after about a minute. Switched over to Amazon (to watch the s6 finale), and had no issues.I'm always having issues on the Xbox app. It took me forever to get through Westworld because it would never work and it took like 45 minutes until I could get GoT to play last night.iPad NOW app worked perfect for me at 9 Central time.9pm EST and it wouldn't load on Apple TV. Possible that extra half hour sorted people out Na, same here. Pretty smooth. Obviously your own internet is a factor here, so perhaps that's what he was seeing.Same, used website. Smooth as hell. Nothing like last year.I bet it was the airhorns that went off when The Hound looked into the fireJesus christ. No matter your feelings about Force Awakens, it wasn't a direct remake. They didn't redo the same exact movie and they didn't recast Luke, Han, Leia, etc.Oh yeah, it wasn't necessarily a bad scene because it showed Arya doesn't kill everyone related to the Lannisters, and actually still has that human desire for human contact. 

I don't think it was a waste of a scene, but I can understand why some people would be mildly upset (notice that I said mildly, most people are blowing this way out of proportion) because it does seem like it is an out of place cameo. Silicon Valley, Sopranos, True Detective (season 1 anyway), Veep, Leftovers (for sure). Those alone are worth the price of admission in my opinion. You're entitled to your opinion because taste is subjective. You're opinion is garbage, but you're entitled to it. Narcos did that for meI'm love the concept and actors I'm just not thrilled by the western aspect of it. Still excited for the second season though. I think I took a break half way through the season then went back to watch the second half and it was way better. House of Cards was my fav until GoT. Veep has been a good show up until I finished watching all season.It might... > We had seen no evidence that Davos even knew that people can come back to life. 

He asked Mel if she could do anything. When you have an actual magical person walking around, who you've watched pop out a shadowbaby assassin, you might start thinking along those lines. 

> Whatever happened to the Sons of the Harpy? 

They were being supported by the other slave cities. The other slave cities were defeated in combat and had their armada seized. Having lost decisively, they have no reason to go on trying to poke and irritate the woman with a flock of armored fire-breathing murderbeasts. 

> Why did the Dothraki start following her instead of killing her for being a witch and burning their Khals?

"See that chick who just walked through fire? Let's go kill her. I mean, I'm sure she's not a god or anything, she ONLY walked out of an inferno."

Besides which, it's well established that the Dothraki follow strength. With their former leaders dead, I imagine a magical woman would look like as good an option as any. 

> the target audience is no longer the people who care about the plot.

No, the target audience isn't people who care about the stuff besides the plot. The show doesn't have the time to cater to people who want to see travelogues and read the text of the peace treaties. > Same with Jon becoming king. Why did the northern houses choose a bastard traitor of the Night's Watch who brought Wildlings south of the wall as their king? Do they know that he was resurrected? Why don't they bring it up? Why didn't Sansa tell Jon about Littlefinger's Army? How can a thousands strong army march upto Winterfell without the Lord of Winterfell having any idea about it?

I actually agree with everything else you posted except for this. They made Jon king because they kind of had to. He now had the largest army in the north (if you take into account he has the entire Vale behind him now). He's also Ned Stark's son (or so they think), and has another Stark (Sansa) with him and fully supporting him as well. And he's also now holding Winterfell. Who else would they have to lead them, and who's going to be able to oppose him? Because of the wars/Red Wedding, many of the houses in the north are headed by child-lords now.My God, they couldn't have butchered Jon's death and subsequent resurrection any worse. But this season has sort-of renewed my hope The point is that everything has flaws and there is no reason to focus on the bad parts when you can focus on the good ones. Sansa chapters in AGOT were torturous, but from ACOK onwards I found her an interesting and compelling character. 

I don't get all the hate.Sansa and Brienne chapters get so much hate, but they're some of my favorites, different strokes I guess.And the first half of AFFC. 

>"I'm looking for a maiden of three-and-ten" 

FFSHey, I'll have you know that I like "fat pink mast" and "nipples on a breastplate," thank you very much.So I should read it?Tolkien didn't create dwarves either, but he did popularize the characteristics that we associate with them They're just upholding the family business.Next we'll be sending them to Mars.

MarstraliaIt's going to cost them subscribers. Amazon's streaming is nice but their website is complete shit and makes the whole experience worse.  They don't have a uwp app or even a .exe it absolutely kills my desire to watch anything on it from my HTPC.Hulu seems to be only in america while Netflix, Amazon and HBO are international, so they basically get to carve up Hulu's content and ddistribute it on their services outside of the US. The handmaid's tale is on HBO nordici have Amazon and can't use it because they don't support Chromecast.  i refuse to watch tv on my laptopMy no-ads Hulu is a godsend. Well worth the extra $2 a month. I swapped logins with it for a friend’s HBO so we now both win. My Hulu with no adds is cheaper than my HBO now subscriptionFor me it was "Under the Dome" man, that was awful, yet i watched it all.Yes! Its a love hate relationship for sure, with a lot more hate then love but seasons 3 4 and 6 are my favorite got seasons.Game of thrones is 4 for 6. TWD only has 1-2 good seasons. He/she's talking about the Walking Dead not GOT.The only reason I still watch TWD is because I keep up with the comics and it's always interesting to see how they can butcher themfor me the story just got repetitive and lazy. it's like the same conflicts over and over again, except in a different location. although that's the same vibe i got from the comics as well.

i think my biggest turn off though, is that there is no end game in sight and it seems like everything is just being made up on the fly. at least with season 1 they had the CDC and even season 2 there was some sense of hope that they'd find some sort of normal civilization or cure. and then the show gave up on the idea of having an ending. there seemed to be no overarching plot to push the show forward anymore. the show became about showing the group just trying to survive which didn't move the story forward in any way.because like most american content providers it's blocked here.Well, in the Netherlands its very hard to get HBO. You have to get a certain provider for it and HBO GO is not a thing here. It you don't have a tv and digital tv and a subscription to Ziggo (one of many providers), its impossible to watch GoT legally.  


That makes it kinda okay to pirate GoT IMO.Hmm. Yes and no. Yeah piracy is stealing and you can discuss the morals of that but you can also discuss the morals of charging people out the ass for premium channels just because you're a greedy jerk. 

What HBO and Showtime have done, and it's hella smart, is offer their channels through Amazon prime and Hulu. For $15 a month I get full access to all hbo things, including live tv. It's genius. They are working on all of those people who pirate because they don't want to fork over $120 a month for a premium cable subscription. But $15 and all access to everything? Done. Yeah, but it's the Nordics, you lot have your shit straight far more so than most of the rest of the world.yea but swefilm drops the episodes 1h later for free which is always betterI envy you as a german, there is no easy way to watch HBO content.
Sky owns it all, and you have to be buy a sub from them iirc

I already pay for Netflix and Amazon Video, would be happy to add HBO Online to that list. Just do it HBOHBO Nordic is the bomb. Ok so it's very expensive (it costs more than Netflix for heaven's sake) but it works super well - apart from when they accidentally uploaded The Door 24hrs before its US broadcast lol - and is very flexible, I only subscribe during Game of Thrones. They are very good at all related content too, like screening episodes in cinemas (I saw the premiere of Westworld on big screen and it was awesome and free) and they had that exhibition last year before season 6 with costumes from the show (GoT I mean) and an Iron Throne replica. Getting my picture taken on that was like the highlight of that month for me haha.I tried to get in at 5 minute past and got stuck on loading screeens for about 5 minutes. But when I got to the actual episode page it was full hd with zero buffering the entire episode.I had no lag or any issues with HBO go No issues streaming via game consoleI had no issues.Yep, this right here.

I have HBO Go and had to wait until this morning to be able to watch it, last night it was down for a long while. I resisted the urge to pirate it but I seriously considered it, paying for something and not being able to use it sucks. 

Piracy is not always about pirating for the sake of it, when the service for the paying customer is worse than for the pirating one you gotta really consider if you as a company are doing the right thing.Most of the public torrents are the same torrents, besides if it's a different uploader. They're linked together. Forget what the technical term is calledTwo good hands, though. They're named Check and Mate. They watch got for the dragon nudityIf you factor in the mutliverse pirates then we're up at around....a cotillion?We're at approximately 70 Brazilian people if we include...a small part of BrazilThere are also fans of the GoT in other countries, you know.It may be shocking but USA is not the only country in the world. At least you have the option, Canadians don't get hbo goThe dance of dragons was an incredible episodeFor sure. Being able to binge something is now the preferred method, since Netflix got so hugeWhich is funny because Deadline reported that GOT Season 7 was the most viewed TV trailer of all-time.Show-only people are shitting themselves while book readers are preparing themselves for frustration and disappointment Nope.  Maybe you're confusing the seven books for seven seasons?How about 6It can be hard to figure out how. You can create an HBO NOW account and link Channels to it, but it doesn't let you use that to watch in the app for some reason. You have to find the option to log in through another service in the app and it will take you to Amazon authentication, which then lets you watch in the app. No, GO has been a nightmare for me.  It's constantly out, even when GOT isn't on.  I signed up for a free trial of NOW the day before and when GO wasn't working, as expected, I switched to NOW and it was great.As far as I know, one's traffic doesn't affect the other but I could be wrong.Maybe it was just my area, but the quality was horrible at around 8PM EST, about five minutes after the show was released.  So I tried XBox which was so much better.Or it depends on what server in the server farm you get connected to. Firefox was freezing like a mofo. Switched to chrome and became buttery smooth.  On Hbo now at 9pm central. Yeah, I was having trouble watching movies waiting for GoT to start but when it did start it was completely smoothUsed the website and had like two buffers/pauses but otherwise great stream"I see...a mountain."

GET HYPE!2meta2fastA desperate race to save the McGuffin, puts it in the metaphorical hands of the persistent, faithful droid, who also is an agent of comedy relief. This droid will cross paths with the innocent hero, who will eventually become far greater because of the force. All the while, the evil Sith lord leads the dark side's efforts to recover the McGuffin. The dark side have also created a technological terror capable of destroying planets, which must be destroyed or all is lost.

Only with the help of Han Solo and Chewbacca can the light side succeed.

A father figure to the force user will fall to the Sith lord, who will ultimately be stopped short, and the plucky light side fleet will overcome the enemy base and destroy the planet killer.

Everything from random tentacle monsters, to desert worlds, to X-Wings to Tie Fighters will feature prominently in both movies. A scoundrel finds his redemption. A greater evil lurks (mostly) off camera. 

While not an exact remake, The Force Awaken tried (and largely succeeded in my opinion) to recapture the magic, themes, and emotional movements A New Hope Created. I think this was a purposeful reaction to the prequals (and even Return of the Jedi) because they had unintentionally lost the magic.
It was more like poetry. It rhymes. Don't make me separate you two.>  You're opinion is garbage

Hahahaha so is yours kiddo. I love NarcosYa, I wouldn't be surprised honestly with pirated views >Having lost decisively, they have no reason to go on trying to poke and irritate the woman with a flock of armored fire-breathing murderbeasts. 

But Dany didn't know who the sons of the Harpy were. That's the whole plot of Season 5. They used knives to do their killing, not guns that you need another rich city to back your war. I was looking forward to see how they'd solve the the insurgency issue because it's such a difficult nut to crack IRL. But they just wished it away. 

With enough suspension of disbelief you can justify anything but when I see stupid scenes like the sons of Harpy conveniently coming out of the city gates just to be slaughtered by Dothraki, I'm gonna go ahead and call it a bad writing.Sansa had a better claim at the throne than Jon and she also had the larger army i.e. Vale. But I guess you're right. It all comes down to Sansa not pushing for her claimThe problem people have with Brienne chapters isn't that they're bad, it's just that they haven't advanced the plot.Yeah definitely. Some people prefer crapI definitely recommend it. Asimov is my favorite author. There are a few different starting points, though. Foundation is the first book of his that I read, but depending on your tastes, Caves of Steel or even his robot short stories might be a better place to start. Ok. Whats that got to do with asoiaf? 

LOTR is and always will be a legendary accomplishment. A great story. I like asoiaf more. Theres aspects of asoiaf that I feel were beyond Tolkiens scope.I guessing they have an equation of how much ad revenue will be earned vs how much will be lost due to people leaving for that reason. Once the latter becomes significantly smaller than the former you'll start seeing them.You can just use your Chromecast, it works fine.You can totally cast Amazon from a PC to Chromecast. I just cast Creed from my laptop to my TV last week. I watch it while flying. Can download offline and absolutely love it since I travel for work.As I recall, HBO is now available as an add-on for Hulu. Yup. The extra couple of dollars for no ads is well worth it. But you suddenly realize that all the TV shows are actually 17 or 42 minutes long!My only issue with ad-free Hulu is that they aren't consistent with keeping new shows season-to-season. Which makes sense given that they are owned by (basically) cable companies, but it's annoying.But they're programming doesn't compare. At least not in my opinion, especially since they lost the Criterion Collection to Film Struck. My 2 biggest complaints:

1-exactly what you said, it no longer feels like there's a goal. Yeah, kill the evil guys, just like you always have, but then what? Is this the Final Boss and you'll live happily ever after? What then?

2- In an effort to keep you on the edge of your seat, they (take this to mean comic or show) killed off interesting characters. See, I don't care if they kill off well-loved characters. But if your plot becomes less interesting without a character, then... don't kill him, unless you found an interesting way to use his death or found someone else to fill that role. Oh definitely.  All the plot points start with "I have to do X on my own because of whatever made up reason that just became important now".  Yeah, I switched HBO, Starz, cinemax, and Showtime to amazon channels and it's about half the price it was with comcast.

Plus, it's trivial to shut one or more of them off for a month and start it back up again whenever I want.  Something not so easy with cable where everything is bundled in packages.

This is good for the premiums, but for the basics it's still tough to beat a cable subscription and a DVR.Quality is worse though. And I have no qualms with supporting HBO.> but it works super well - apart from when they accidentally uploaded The Door 24hrs before its US broadcast lo

I would consider that a pro for it.

I would love to see HBO expands in other countries via their streaming only HBONow.Yeah, same. It was flawless for me and my friends. [*sigh*](http://i.imgur.com/J191MnF.png)I have Netflix and was considering getting HBO too. But I keep hearing nothing but horror stories about their app. I won't think about it until they get their shit together.Hbo Now had zero issues for me I pirate all of my purchased blu rays and series.

Because 

A. I could take them with me more easily than the optical disks (think USB drives etc.)

B. Its just faster and more convient to watch on more devices. Skip pirating ads (lol) and trailers for movies ON THE DISK (worst crime ever) and the somestimes sopisticated but fucking annoying DVD / Bluray Menues. I can watch my pirated movies in my phone, tablet, notebook, and smart tv, even more if I want to. Try that with optical disks. I pirated it last night, despite paying for HBO Now, because I couldn't even watch the s06 finale. I actually bought the s06 finale on Amazon because it wouldn't stream on HBO, so fuck it. I pay for all of the entertainment I consume, but if I'm not able to get what I'm paying for, I'll figure out a way (while still paying for it, of course).I.e the reason Australia is the #1 pirating nation. 

The major content provider, Foxtel, has the rights to most good content over here. They charge a stupid amount for their service, which has shitload of ads.

Thus, our Netflix offers about 1/3rd of the content US Netflix.

We have been screaming for years, that we are happy to pay a reasonable price for what we want, as long as we get to decide when to watch it. 

But Rupert Murdoch (part owner) doesn't give a fuck. He refused to change his business model despite the world moving towards online and streaming. He even had his lackeys in Australian politics wreck his greatest competition: the National Broadband Network.Yea I caught onto that over the years. Insane though. And a very snazzy outfit.We should measure all things by quantities of braziliansThese reported viewer numbers are all US-only numbers.Ah, right. The last three, then.>while book readers are preparing themselves for frustration and disappointment

I read the books and I'm not.I heard a lot of people say this was the last. It must have been just a rumour.The way the series is shot, they would probably have to clone him.It might be the device you're using it on.  I've been using GO on my phone through chromcast for 2 years and have never had a problem with anything on it The recaps kept dropping out in the middle! Couldn't even watch those two minute videos. Episode itself was fine thoughI had a couple issues with Go last year, it was on my 360, but I now have it on my PS4, and it works like a dream. I expected some issues last night, but I started watching before the clock hit 9:01, and it was flawless. Not entirely sure who downvoted you, because TFA was, very intentionally, a callback to Epsiode 4. This isn't a SW sub but here we go; it was _not_ intended to be a remake, but a rhyme. After the hate that got piled onto the prequels (for the record, I am so happy that the prequels and Hayden Christensen are finally getting love) they were directly pointing to the OT and saying "we get it." 

Now, what I am not so sure of is whether TLJ is going to be ESB 2.0. Aside from this "twist" they mentioned (need I remind anyone that the twist in ESB was so huge _because nobody expected it_) I'm not sure what to expect, and I strongly suspect it's going to tie into recent seasons of Rebels and suggestions made in the second-tier SW storylines. Hi, Bendu.

What they fucked up on in TFA was a lack of context in the fucking movie, and relegating the in-between to the damn books. Because it's all there, but how many people read them. 

Edit: TLJ, not TLAYes but its not a direct remake. IDK How many times that needs to be said. There's a huge leap from following a very similar structure VS literally remaking the old movie with new actors to take on the roles and plots of characters we already know.

Like I said, no matter your feelings on Force Awakens, a literal remake of A New Hope is not gonna happen for a LONG time (IDK if it ever will happen in our life times).This a great fucking comment my friend.Don't make me separate you two.  Definitely, like the Greyjoy chapters.

Edit: Minus Book Euron. I am utterly fascinated where his story is going, especially after The Forsaken chapter details.GRRM certainly counts Tolkien as one of his inspirations. “I admire Tolkien greatly. His books had enormous influence on me. And the trope that he sort of established—the idea of the Dark Lord and his Evil Minions—in the hands of lesser writers over the years and decades has not served the genre well. It has been beaten to death. The battle of good and evil is a great subject for any book and certainly for a fantasy book, but I think ultimately the battle between good and evil is weighed within the individual human heart and not necessarily between an army of people dressed in white and an army of people dressed in black. When I look at the world, I see that most real living breathing human beings are grey.” 

I don't think Tolkien is the be-all and end-all of fantasy, but there's little doubt that if he hadn't written his stories, ASoIaF would not exist. Just because somebody took that work and improved upon it, that shouldn't lessen the impact that the original writer had. Tolkien had morally grey characterization as well (see, e.g., Boromir and Faramir, and the easily corruptible nature of men in general), it just wasn't as prevalent because there was more of a focus on high fantasy in his work.You like ASOIAF more. That is different than saying ASOIF is in a different league from Lord of the Rings.

I don't think a lot of people would agree with you.I think as soon as people start seeing ads they will flock to whatever new provider doesn't have ads. I'm guessing it's working out ok for Netflix right now since they're dumping boatloads of money into their own content. you can use screen mirroring,  on my network it just stutters the entire time.  I might try it next time I fly. Thanks for the suggestion! The worst part is they make it obvious who is going to die next by giving them a load of backstory. nah its alright, u get 720 with swedish subtitles and it barely buffers for me at leastYeah, I guess they promoted piracy? I dunno. I said I didn't pirate it so I guess that's why I was saved.Here in Latin America (Argentina to be more precise) HBO GO was down for the whole episode, so streaming it wasn't possible.Man that blows. Murdoch sucks.I thought Reddit used bananas for scale? How many bananas watched it?All things?  That would take like 3 Brazilian years...Damn, you've got meNot every book reader is hard on the show, some accept it for what it is, others see wasted potential. What I'm saying is that in general it's the showbies who are the most excited. They don't see the flaws or think about them too much, the show is perfect in their eyes. And while plenty of book readers understand changes that need to be made, it's hard not to be disappointed by the dip in quality.Because people are really sceptical about remakes, so You remake a film, but don't call it remake, brilliant.Very, very few movies are shot for shot remakes. I know the 1998 version of Pyscho tried to be a shot for shot remake. However, many reboots aren't straight up copies. Take Planet of the Apes (1968) and compare it to Planet of the Apes (2001) or Dawn of the Planet of the Apes (2014).

I also know The Force Awakens was both a reboot and a direct sequel, which is rare. However, The Force Awakens is closer to Into Darkness (copying The Wrath of Khan) than it is to Aliens (making up new stuff) when it comes to originality and advancing the story. [removed]I don't mind that people don't agree with me. I've read both, and feel that asoiaf is a superior read. What kind of speeds are we talking?  My super old chromecast has been working like a champ lately with this stuff, but maybe it's because of my internet speeds (70-80 mpbs, last year anyway). It shouldn't, the Chromecast can grab the feed.Naaahh at most 7 Brazilians moonsFor the most part, this seems to be true only if you spend a lot of time on message boards. Most people that read the books don't, and they're not constantly sitting in a swirl of negativity that you typically find on here. Most people understand that there are fundamental differences in the two storytelling mediums, and if you're constantly griping about a drop in quality from book to screen, then it just simply means that you prefer the massive increase in detail and connect with the long and slow walk through a story. Doesn't mean one is better or worse, it just depends on what you enjoy more. I'm in the camp of enjoying the books more, but the constant stream of complaining around here is ridiculous imo. The show is as fantastic as almost any I've ever seen, regardless of whether I enjoy the books more. I felt the same way about the Harry Potter films, the LotR films, The Witcher video games, etc. All in all, I think some people are just too quick to complain, many of them are subbed to here and /r/gameofthronesoh my god dude. the point was that it'll be a while until GoT or franchises like star wars get full remakes. Force Awakens wasn't a full remake. Full stop. You can talk about how close they were structurally but they did not fully remake A New Hope. 

And none of that matters because we were talking about GoT. So what, in 20 years they'll make a series that vaguely follows the same structure as the current GoT? No... If anyone does a GoT remake they are going to remake it from the start, not a similarly structured sequel. Reports are anonymous; we have no idea who spotted the [civility policy](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy) problem here.Some of the most important books in literature read pretty poorly, but are regarded well because of how foundational they are. It's the Seinfield effect - something so influential that it seems trite.

You are welcome to prefer ASoIaF over LotR, but it is undeniable that in the grand scheme of things, LotR is more *influential* on the genre as a whole.And that opinion is fine, just realize that most fans of ASoIaF wouldn't consider it a greater accomplishment, or a more influential series than LotR. Saying you like what Martin wrote better than what Tolkien wrote is fine...but you basically said the first three books of asoiaf collectively shits all over LotR.the fastest I can buy 12mpbs. it's usually tops out at 1-4. The spin offs if they happen will be in the next few years and if the ratings increase, there is a good chance one will be set in a remarkably similar time period as far as political strife and Dragons go
I always got the sense from the books that The Masters were against Magic more so then anything. That they orchestrated the date of the dragons and the end of magic. 

I don't see them being on the side of the White Walkers, simply because they are magical entities themselves.That seems far fetched. All that he is saying that everyone has a role to play. Making sure the history is preserved is what a maester does, not gallivanting around trying to make history, but recording it. They don't take part in events. 
Yes! I've been hunting for posts like this. I wrote up a similar theory using the same evidence.

The hubristic academic that doesn't believe in the in-world fantasy elements is such a tired trope in Fantasy and to ignore a phenomenon like the Long Night returning while your whole job is about learning the environmental patterns that affect people is out of character for GoT and GRRM.

I think the Archmaesters and/or Hightowers have been guarding information regarding the Long Night and its possible recurrence for a long time. Sam's story line this season was set up to discover something crucial about Planetos history when you consider the Maester's peculiar response, the location of the Citadel and the fact the only info Sam "discovers" from the restricted section is really only a reminder for casual viewers. Something's fishy when this many coincidences happen to a character dedicated to finding lost,  helpful knowledge amongst people seemingly impeding that search.I would have called this far-fetched until last night as well. The way this speech is written and directed, it seems like a guilty person saying, "It's not important, don't look any further into it or else."

Obviously we'd need a ton of work to even begin to address the arguments against it. But if I were to just see this scene and know nothing else about the ASOIAF universe, I'd tell you the Archmaester was trying very hard to prevent Sam from uncovering their incriminating evidence of complicity.pretty dumb theory. What do you think the Citadel will do over the long winter? Do you think they have a bomb shelter under that tower? Oldtown is huge, it will be a target.If Varys is right about power coming from mens belief, spreading the idea that magic is dead, might actually be a good way to get rid of it.

The Maesters may have been trying to get rid of Dragons, I'm not sure if they would be directly trying to help the Others. As a lack of magic might also affect them adversely.I think you're reading to much into the dialogue. The archmaester is just telling Sam that doomsday prophecies happen routinely, and that they are never correct. Yet people believe them because commoners are like dogs that have no memories of past calamities from which mankind has always recovered. It's not the Citadel's job to lend credence to these doomsday scenarios, because the maesters "know" that things will work out in the end. While the archmaester does believe that the Others exist, it appears that he assumes they have been roaming the Earth with some frequency, but that they've always gone back to rest come summer. To me the archmaester's sentiment is just a symptom of good ol' orthodoxy that Sam needs to overcome if he's going to get the Citadel to work with him. 

This would explain why they're so protective of lore on the apocalyptic events of the long night. However this scene also brings up some questions. Like if it's only the archmaesters who are on board with this? Because if it were common dogma throughout the entirety of the maesters, then Aemon would have no reason to help the Night's Watch. But if it is only known by the highest levels of the maesters, then why let Sam have cryptic clues like this? Though that could very well be attributed to his firsthand experience of the Others.Seems awfully dumb to me. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*They are a collection of the greatest minds in Westeros, you don't think they could think up a solution to that. Also, Oldtown doesn't need to survive, merely the Citadel. It's also why I brought up the idea that they could have negotiated a deal with the Night's King to leave the Citadel alone.

Again, if the Citadel believes that Winter always passes and that these occurrences are simply a natural revolving event in the world then it makes sense they'd be more interested in surviving the Long Night, with mankind cumulative knowledge in tact, that attempting to fight it.Yes, I believe it's only the highest members of the Maester order. Aemon naturally wouldn't be trusted due to his Dragon blood. I forgot to note the final odd part of the Archmaester's whole speech, he states that he believes Sam. Think about this, Sam was sent by the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch to become a Maester and learn all he could about the Long Night and the White Walkers. This was sent in a letter by Jon, THE LORD COMMANDER, to the Citadel. He's ignored.

Now, this Archmaester says that he believes Sam. He believes that Sam has seen the White Walkers from legend, these mythical beings whose last arrival was thought to have near ended the world as we know it. And, his response is...nothing. He doesn't let Sam have access to the Restricted Section, he doesn't ask him any further questions, nothing. He says I believe you, but stresses **winter always passes.** Then tells him to finish cleaning up.

I don't know how much more you can foreshadow, *these dudes are up to some shit* than that.I for sure think they're hiding something. But it seems almost as though they're indifferent to it rather than supporting the White Walkers. Sketchy to say the least, but just like Trump, it's hard to prove actual collusion.show Arya is not shown as a sex object at all. i think a lot of fans are projecting some desires onto the actress herself.

i think Margaery was the younger and more beautiful one. Maggy didn't account for Cersei being willing to blow up half the city in order to win...note how that part wasn't mentioned at all in the prophecy.

if anything, Arya represents "good gone bad" or the antihero. she's what happens when people are pushed to the brink psychologically and physically. she becomes willing to kill anything in her way to get what she wants, and this will be a major dilemma for her -- and the audience that is cheering so hard at her mass murder -- moving forward.What if Arya has Jamies face and then kills Cersei? That could be seen as her brother killing herShe could be the Valonqar, I guess. She was Lord Walder Frey just last night. If we're talking about book, then Arya might be growing up to resemble Lyanna. That would be interesting since one of the reasons Cersei turned against Robert was his obession with Lyanna, who he wanted as his rightful queen.[removed]I wouldn't say maisie is better looking than Lena. I don't think it's even close. But attractions are opinions. Yeah. And the actress' looks have nothing to do with GRRM and the decisions in the books The character have looks as well. GRRM describes them in great length. But to the point of a previous comment she takes after Lyanna who was beautiful. The book *characters'* looks matter, yes. 

But the very subjective matter of whether Maisie is better-looking than Lena doesn't. At least not to GRRM's story choices.>The girl was too young and too plain to be Sansa Stark, but she was of the right age to be the younger sister, and even Lady Catelyn had said that Arya **lacked her sister's beauty.**
-Brienne AFFC

>And Arya, well... Ned's visitors would oft **mistake her for a stableboy** if they rode into the yard unannounced. Arya was a trial, it must be said. Half a boy, half a wolf pup. Forbid her anything and it became her heart's desire. She had Ned's **long face, and brown hair that always looked as though a bird had been nesting in it**. I despaired of ever making a lady of her
-Catelyn ACOK

>Arya Underfoot, he almost said. Arya Horseface. Robb's younger sister, brown-haired, long-faced, skinny as a stick. Always dirty.
-Theon ADWD

Arya was 9 and hated fuss and feathers. She also lived in Sansa's shadow which only further repelled her from that lifestyle. She has the potential of growing up to be insanely beautiful.This is the hypothesis of The Maesters (who  are anti-magic).

Unfortunately for them, GRRM has confirmed that the strange seasons in Planetos are caused by a magical force that will be explained, not a unique planetary/moon system.

"It's fantasy, man." - GRRM on the seasons.

The maesters don't have hidden knowledge, they're actually *wrong* (in this instance and others) because they deny magic and they live in a fantasy setting.Yeah Sam's big epiphany about dragonstone was pretty anticlimactic. I was really hoping he would steal the book you reference and learn something about how Planetos defies the physics of orbiting a solar body.it starts with planetos and end with moonos. the story doesnt take place on a planet. it takes place on its moon. this explains it. no volcano, no comet was causing the weird seasons. its orbit around a planet is causing it. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*> The most conspicuous aspect of the world of Westeros in The Song of Ice and Fire is the nature of the seasons, the long and random nature of the seasons. I have gotten a number of fan letters over the years from readers who are trying to figure out the reason for why the seasons are the way they are. **They develop lengthy theories: perhaps it’s a multiple-star system, and what the axial tilt is, but I have to say, “Nice try, guys, but you’re thinking in the wrong direction.” This is a fantasy series. I am going to explain it all eventually, but it’s going to be a fantasy explanation. It’s not going to be a science-fiction explanation.**

– GRRM interview, *Speaking of the Fantastic III: Interviews with Science Fiction Writers*, 2007They'd physically see the planet they were orbitting constantly though. Take a look at the Earth looks like from the moon.too important auto bro...Yet his dragons must have two legs, its scientifically more accurate he says. i know that reference. ... and?

He didn't say it was an interesting planet. It could easily be a planet with a surface as boring as our own moon. The point is if the people were moon people you'd see a giant fucking planet in the background of the sky at all times which would probably be mentioned at least one time in the series?Things look smaller and smaller the further away they are, no matter how big they are.

If Earth's moon was twice its size but further away, it would look exactly the same size from where we're standing. OK but there is no object in Planetos' sky that is ever mentioned besides a sun, meaning there is no other constant there.> OK but there is no object in Planetos' sky that is ever mentioned besides a sun

* Prince Rhaegar Targaryen liked to sleep in the ruined hall of Summerhall, beneath the moon and the stars.
* During Ramsay Bolton's wedding to “Arya Stark” in Winterfell's godswood above the treetops a crescent moon is floating in a dark sky, half obscured by mist, like an eye peering through a veil of silk.
* When Reek emerges from the dungeons and into the Dreadfort’s yard a full moon is rising over the castle’s eastern walls.
* A full moon floats above the mast of the Shy Maid, Tyrion Lannister thinks it is following him downriver, like some great eye.
* Dark clouds are scuttling across the face of a sickle moon as sixty three ironmen are flayed and impaled by the Boltons.
* At first sight Vaes Tolorro is described by Daenerys Targaryen’s outriders as a city as pale as the moon and lovely as a maid.
* Tyrion Lannister has never seen a bigger moon than the one he sees aboard the Selaesori Qhoran when the ship is sailing too close to Valyria. Monstrous and swollen, it looks as if it has swallowed the sun and woken with a fever.
* They say never drink with Dornishmen when the moon is full.
* As the first sliver of a crescent moon comes peeking through the clouds, Bran and his companions finally stumble into the abandoned wildling village by the lake.
* Khal Drogo’s khalasar rode through the Forest of Qohor for half a moon.
* A story told to misbehaving children said that on moonless nights bats would fly from Harrenhal and take the bad children back to Mad Danelle Lothston.
* The Wall shimmers pale and icy like a frozen stream when the moon comes out.
* Roose Bolton’s eyes look empty in the moonlight, as if there were no one behind them.
* Ghost’s red eyes glow like pools of fire in the moonlight.
* A full moon swims in the black sky above Meereen as Daenerys walks with Xaro Xhoan Daxos along the terrace of the Great Pyramid.
* Moonlight shines in Quaithe’s eyes when she tells Daenerys Targaryen what she wants: to show her the way.
* A half-moon floats in the sky above Meereen when Daenerys receives Daario Naharis on her terrace, moonlight glimmers in his eyes.
* The moon is almost full when Asha Greyjoy is at Deepwood Motte.
* Qarl the Maid stands over a dying northman at Deepwood Motte, his long-sword dripping and moonlight shinning in his eyes.
* Tristan Rivers thinks that Illyrio Mopatis’s plan changes every time the moon turns.
* Benerro jabs a finger at the moon, makes a fist and spreads it wide as Tyrion Lannister watches him.
* The light of the waning moon spills across the bedchamber of the Merchant’s House when Tyrion Lannister is in fetters.
* The moon kisses Jon Snow and etches his shadow against the Wall.
* While in the House of Black and White Arya Stark’s nights are bathed in moonlight and filled with the songs of her pack.
* Daenerys sees a pale crescent moon floating high above the grass while wandering lost in the Dothraki Sea.
* The moon is half-full when Val goes to find Tormund Giantsbane, its light turns her hair a pale silver and leaves her cheeks as white as snow.
* No moonlight ever touches the stoney halls of the caves beneath the hill where the three-eyed crow lives.
* In flight on Drogon's back Daenerys Targaryen sees a silver moon, almost close enough to touch.Every single one of those sentences has the exact same word in it - moon. Sorry though, you are right, I talked about the sun and totally forgot the moon! 

Where is the mention of the other planet though? OP's theory is that planetos IS the moon, so where is the light in the sky during night coming from? If they are on a moon, the 'planet' that they would be mistaking for a 'moon' wouldn't wax and wane, but he clearly describes it in your own evidence as 'crescent' at some points.

EDIT: [Check this post out for GRRM himself saying theories like this are wrong.](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nvcvm/spoilers_extended_s07e01_does_that_one_book/dkd7n9w/)> OP's theory is that planetos IS the moon, so where is the light in the sky during night coming from?

I took his theory to imply that what the people of Planetos called a moon was actually larger than their own world and therefore actually a planet. 

> If they are on a moon, the 'planet' that they would be mistaking for a 'moon' wouldn't wax and wane

Sure it would. Earth already waxes and wanes. When we have a "full moon" here, it's a "new earth" on the moon (when the day side of Earth is the farthest side from the moon). A few days later, it's a waxing crescent earth. Finally when it's a "new moon" here, it's a "full earth" on the moon (when the day side of Earth is the nearest side to the moon).

> EDIT: Check this post out for GRRM himself saying theories like this are wrong.

Wow, that poster really seems to have done his research. I bet he's super handsome, too. http://earthsky.org/space/what-would-earth-look-like-from-the-moon

Here's a resource on what a planet would look like from the perspective of the moon, although it's common sense.

And yeah I'd bet he is handsome <3Syrio Forell in his probably last moments This actually happens once in the books, we see the same conversation from both Jon and Sam's POVs (Sam in aFfC and Jon in aDwD). There's some interesting details that Jon and Sam choose to focus on.I think it would be fun to see Jaime's evolution through the eyes of Ser Ilyn Payne. He does that laughing/clucking thing, so he obviously has opinions, and he's been around so many major players in the story.Roose Bolton at the Red Wedding. Or Kevan Lannister, but not his epilogue....Jaime during the Whispering WoodIlyn Payne has seen everything at court! yeah I would love even one POV from him.Completely agree.in the show doesn't his creation predate the great houses? he's just a First Man that COTF captured. 

sure, the blood of the First Men runs through the Starks, but they weren't called that back then..right?What if they knew it was going to turn him into a white walker but what they didnt know was that, because he was a warg, he could raise an army of the dead?  Maybe the CoTF did not see that shit cominhow could the COTF know stabbing a guy in the chest with dragonglass would not kill him if they never did it before? What episode is the scene where the children of the forest are shown making him into a white walker? I need to see that again.In the book its heavily impliedS6E5 - The DoorNan straight up says he was a StarkRewatched that before the premiere and that's what gave me the idea.She was talking about a different Night's King I believe. In the books the Night's King was the 13th Lord Commander of the Night's Watch, who fell in love with an Other and proclaimed himself king. While it's possible that she turned him into an Other, it's clear that he wasn't created by the CoTF. The show Night's King on the other hand, appears to have been a creation of the CoTF. Right, but I was replying to u/GERDY31290 who said "in the books"

My guess would be that the show's Night King is an amalgam of maybe a few figures.I was just elaborating, not contradicting you :)indeed. Good man.>she was one of the few people in history to be "cured."

In the books its well known that the progression can be stopped when children contract it but its expensive and when adults get it there is no cure.well BESIDES that I know right? It's the most frustrating fucking thing. None of the northern lords give a shit that the Lord Commander is running around doing deserter things. Literally the only people who have any reason to believe he can come back from the dead are the wildlings, Mel, and Ser Davos, and none of those people are particularly credible in the eyes of those Jon needs to convince. Everyone else in-universe would answer the question "Can you come back to life after you die?" with a resounding NO.

Don't worry though everyone here will just make excuses for it so the writers don't have toWhos going to enforce this?

The men at castle black know he came back from the dead, so as far as they're concerned his watch has ended.

The north just crowned him king and seem pretty happy to have a Stark back in place of Boltons.

The crown has bigger problems. You know with the enemies in every direction.

So whos left? the 100 or so other nights watch members at the other castles? You expect them to drop their defences, march into the north to attack a king in direct defiance of their new lord commander Ed?

Littlefinger could try, but no one gives a damn at this point. Unless you expect him to have the vale fight the north to have him removed? I suspect Littlefigner feels he has a better chance leveraging a certain bastards true heritage than in a direct confrontation.He was pardoned by the King in the North. Checkmate.

Seriously though, it is known that Lord Commander Edd allowed him to. You can't really call it "deserting" if your Commanding Officer allows you to go.
http://google.comYeah, Jon didn't desert. His Watch ended the moment he died.

"Night gathers, and now my watch begins. **It shall not end until my death.** I shall take no wife, hold no lands, father no children. I shall wear no crowns and win no glory. I shall live and die at my post. I am the sword in the darkness. I am the watcher on the walls. I am the shield that guards the realms of men. I pledge my life and honor to the Night's Watch, for this night and all the nights to come."Jon states himself that he had died for the night's watch. Therefore his watch has ended
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Right, but nobody in the North knows that he legitimately returned from the dead other than the brothers who were at Castle Black when it happened and Davos.  The word of these guys doesn't mean much to the nobility since the watch in their lifetime has basically been a penal colony.  He appears to be a deserter to them, why aren't they at least questioning why he's no longer with the watch?[removed]He could show him his scars. Sansa could vouch for him, etc etc. I mean he did execute like 4 men. Unless they think he did it for no reason, I think they can come to the conclusion that Jon and his friends are telling the truth. Because they have no reason not to believe him. I'm sure they could just ask the new Lord Commander if they weren't sure. Ravens go back and forth all the time. And Jon Snow helped them recapture Winterfell with Sansa at his side. The North stands behind the Starks. They always have, they always will.[Please refrain from insulting people in /r/asoiaf](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy). Behavior like this can result in a ban.I didn't realize I insulted anyone, sorry. Because they have access to his full and final arch  and he isn't worthy of praise. They probably started his downfall earlier for the same reason they added the scene where cat talks about sick jon. Because they understood that book readers for the most part didn't understand what grrm wrote and made up whatever they wanted to about cat and stannis. Readers hate cat because their mom's are pains in the butts, so D&D had to a make sure show watchers didn't make the same dumbass mistake. I imagine it's the same with stains except with unearned praise instead of the hate cat gotI somehow got super excited thinking Stannis when they showed someone in a cell asking about the dragon queen who just arrives at Dragonstone then I thought about it and disappointingly realized its just Jorah as it made no sense otherwise.Because Stannis "steals" Jon's plot in the books with his actions in ADWD, and it makes better television for them if the protagonist frees the north. Stannis had to be ruined to justify giving his plot to Jon.

Which completely misses one of Martin's key criticisms of other stories in that there needs to be logic in what and how the characters do or don't do things. Stannis has the "free the north" plot in the books instead of Jon because Stannis:

- Is a better commander than Jon
- Has much more experience than Jon
- Has more men than Jon
- Has much better quality men than Jon
- Has gotten the fealty of every northerner not sworn to Bolton except for the Reeds and Skagosi, who generally stay home and do nothing anyways
- Is actually near Winterfell unlike Jon
- Has a plan to deal with a huge portion of Bolton's army before he ever even gets to Winterfell unlike Jon
- Has men inside Winterfell
- Has men who can get inside Winterfell

Stannis and not Jon will free the north in the books because logically speaking he has the advantages Jon does not which could allow him to do so. 

Hence why the show

- Never gave Stannis any northern allies, despite book Stannis' army being around 80% northerners
- Never let Stannis free Deepwood, which gained him the respect of the anti-Bolton factions
- Had a bunch of Stannis' sellswords desert him, despite Stannis not having any anymore by the time he's in the north
- Had a bunch of Stannis' men desert him, despite Stannis' men being extremely loyal to him
- Had Ramsay and "Twenty Good Men" able to sneak up and completely destroy his camp, his supplies, his siege engines, his horses, etc
- Had Stannis burn Shireen, despite Shireen not being even with him
- Had Stannis send Davos to Jon, compared to book Stannis sending Davos to Manderly and successfully negotiating for Stannis the support of Manderly, Locke, Flint, and Robett Glover
- Had Stannis actually kill Mance, despite book Stannis clearly being in on the switch 
- Had Stannis actually march on Winterfell, despite book Stannis stopping at the crofter's village to lure Roose to attack him rather than him begin a siege he couldn't win
- Had Stannis march his army completely unorganized and without scouts, never realizing the Bolton army was coming out to meet him, despite book Stannis having made that mistake at the Blackwater and later corrected it
- Had Stannis begin a siege with no siege engines
- Had Stannis march a completely infantry army onto an open plain rather than sit back in the forest where cavalry couldn't charge as well, while book Stannis has realized that cavalry don't work in winter and terrain advantages work much better against them than infantry

The show had to change so much just to make it possible that Stannis didn't have the same allies, advantages, or even plain ideas, just so that he could lose and then Jon could do most of it anyways.I feel terrible sharing this, but TheDragonDemands makes some EXCELLENT points in [Why the Stannis storyline failed in GoT — emoting & acting.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gw5JyOtxovo)

Warning: 2 hrs, and he's got TONS more where that came from. It explains a lot. I don't agree with all his points, but he's done some dang good research and I think his **tl/dr** MIGHT be "had to shove Dillane off and give Jon his storyline for S6 but boy did Dillane look good in the end."

(Yeah I thought D&D didn't understand Stannis at all, too, but once you hear that video, which is basically saying D&D are shooting for Emmys and emotions more than good storytelling and dialogue — and he **quotes D&D** from EW and the Blu Ray commentaries — it just falls into place. Sadly.)

Doesn't mean I can't like the production values and musical scores of the show, but I DO think it means that D&D are probably not the ones who should be doing this show. They're fans of epic scenery, and they do that well. But they're probably not going to tell a magnificent story like GRRM (hopefully!) will.[removed]He's more man than both of them combined.I read the books and I think he's one the biggest idiots.  I think the show paints him slightly more favorably than the books do. That being said, I just find him to be one the most morally bankrupt of the people vying for the throne. 

I thought I was taking crazy pills after finishing the books and coming to this sub to find people LOVE stannis. I was like wait what are we reading the same thing?

I could totally see book Stannis killing Shireen - he already shadow killed Renly like a little  bitch because he knew he couldnt win a fair fight.  Also he doesnt seem particularly fond of Shireen if memory serves. 




This sub is literally indistinguishable from /r/asoiafcirclejerkSome people claim that they think Stannis might do in Shireen in the books too but I honestly don't see any way that happens. He cares just as much for Shireen in the books as he does in the show; he's hardened and very bad at showing it but he gets very frustrated at his wife anytime she pulls any of her shit about Shireen's issues. It was insurmountably jarring in the show and essentially ruined show!Stannis for me. They made a specific point of showing him having these warm moments with his daughter where, in his own way, he showed that he cares about her a whole lot more than her mother. There's some very significant scenes missing between when he comes to her room to talk to her and when he decides to burn her on a goddamn funeral pyre, and I hate it so much.I agree he went downhill, but I thought he was really solid at first. I never got the impression that he actually bought into the Red God bullshit- he just recognised that having Melisandre around was a boon (at first).

Also, the heart-to-heart with Shireen early in season 5 was real good.I disagree.

>  They painted him as a fire-worshipper in season 2 even though he clearly doesn't believe in anything in the books.

When? He leaves Mel behind for Blackwater and almost kills her after.

> They made him kill Shireen when it seems HIGHLY unlikely that he'll have anything to do with Shireen's death in the books.

Actually, this is very likely, given D&D's comments on the matter.

> Then they proceed to make him look like a foolish commander marching to his death in Winterfell

Well, we don't know what will happen in the books, but battling in the North at the onset of winter does look foolish.

> top it all off 

Nice pun.

> by giving him an off-screen death

The director, not D&D, chose not to show his head being lopped off, because he thought it would be gratuitous.

>  at the hands of Brienne of all people

What do you mean "of all people"? She's a main character who saw "Stannis" kill her beloved Renly with black magic. Seems logical that she would kill him, no? Who better?

> all they did was needlessly insult him further by having his banner taken down by Daenerys Mary Sue Targaryen

I hope she gets rid of those fetuses while she's at it.> They painted him as a fire-worshipper in season 2 even though he clearly doesn't believe in anything in the books.

> Then they proceed to make him look like a foolish commander marching to his death in Winterfell, unlike the tactical mastermind he is in the books, 

I agree with these points, and I agree that overall D&D didn't do the character justice. They have admitted in the interviews that they were not fans of his having read the books, and I think their portrayal of him in the show may have been heavily colored by that, and perhaps even by things they may have heard from GRRM. I do think they missed the point on a lot about Stannis's character (not everything though). That being said, show!Stannis does have his moments, and I do think Stephen Dillaine brought a lot to the character. 

> and top it all off by giving him an off-screen death at the hands of Brienne of all people.

Eh. At least his last line was quintessentially Stannis. 

> They made him kill Shireen when it seems HIGHLY unlikely that he'll have anything to do with Shireen's death in the books.

That I highly disagree with. Sure, it won't happen anytime soon, considering Stannis and Shireen are currently at different locations. But not only do I think that book!Stannis is capable of it (though under different circumstances than in the show and for much higher stakes than a bit of snow), I feel like it has been heavily foreshadowed in the books. Hell, it's exactly what I thought when Stannis is about to sacrifice Edric in the books and Davos sets him free. My first thought was "He's eventually gonna actually go through with it, and it will be someone much more important and dear to him". 

> Daenerys Mary Sue Targaryen

Look, I'm not a huge Dany fan- I don't hate her, but I am critical of her and her storyline. That being said, we really need to stop throwing around the term "Mary Sue" to refer to any character we don't like. It has pretty much lost all meaning at this. 

No, Daenerys is not a Mary Sue by any traditional definition of the term. You can say a lot of things about her (and I certainly do), but not that. I've never found Stannis to be significantly different than he is in the books.

It's pretty clear in the books that his increasing reliance on Melissandre to deliver victories have lead him to horrible choices. It's not a far cry from burning "Mance" to killing his own daughter.

And he does march in the snow to Winterfell in the book and we get a letter from Ramsay suggesting he defeated Stannis. We don't know yet if that's the case, but things were looking rather grim for Stannis at last check.

There's no question the book is setting up Stannis to be a false Azor Ahai with a tragic ending that is likely do to his faith in Melissandre and the Lord of Light.I didn't get the impression that they tried to make him look like a foolish commander, it seemed more to me like he had completely given up and knew he was going to dieD&D unironically do not understand such things as honor. This is why in the last episode it was said that Ned and Robb died because of "stupid mistakes". I actually like his character in the show. The only thing I hated was Ser Twenty Goodmen.> and top it all off by giving him an off-screen death at the hands of Brienne of all people.

Of all people? I'm sure this has nothing to do with her not having a penis. 

Sexism of your statement aside, its probably because he's the character most overrated by fans. I'm not disagreeing with your points about his military prowess, attitude towards religion, etc., but if you didn't watch the show or read the books, a 10 minute visit to this sub would make you think that he's the second coming of Azor Ahai or something. For a tactical mastermind, the decision he made in the books to march on Winterfell with a Southern army in the snow was pretty dumb. It's almost a given that Stannis WILL burn Shireen in the books. Mel will probably use a glamor appearing as Davos to convince him to do it. Everything about his arc (duty over family) has led to that point. Plus D&D has said Martin told them that's how it will go .Wut>Had Ramsay and "Twenty Good Men" able to sneak up and completely destroy his camp, his supplies, his siege engines, his horses, etc

I was there when it happened, it will totally go down the same way in the books.
[don't do that](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy). If you want to participate on r/asoiaf you will not be "incredibly rude" to anyone else here 99% of the readers won't agree with you. And show portrays him more favourably than the books? What tf is you smoking? Have you actually read the books neutrally or just read to find out how bad is Stannis? But Renly was literally traitor and an usurper, Stannis gave him a fair offer but he refused thus had to be executed People complaining about people complaining are worse than the original people complaining in the first place.i mean not literally the logo is up at the top.>He cares just as much for Shireen in the books as he does in the show

Genuinely asking - where does the book go into how he cares about shireen?> When? He leaves Mel behind for Blackwater and almost kills her after.

In the book, Stannis basically starts out as an athiest, but slowly starts to realize that Melissandre has powers, although he still isn't entirely convinced. Since the show basically scraps all of his good monologs we miss the bit about him being an atheist, and show Stannis is very easily persuaded to burn people, where as book Stannis is not at all.

> What do you mean "of all people"? She's a main character who saw "Stannis" kill her beloved Renly with black magic. Seems logical that she would kill him, no? Who better?

Brienne killing Stannis is just horse shit for a few reasons. First of all, right before doing so she refers to Renly as the "rightful king", while she's executing the rightful king. The show tries so hard to make Brienne look like such a wholly good character, yet this is absolutely retarded. And to add some irony to it, she is killing the man Ned died for with Ned's own steel, yet she claims to support the Stark's. Show Brienne is so annoying because she acts as if she's the epitome of honor, yet does retarded shit like this and attacking the hound.

> I hope she gets rid of those fetuses while she's at it.

what fetuses? am I missing something here lolDany isn't really a Mary Sue. Now Tyrion in the show has developed into a Mary Sue, he is constantly right and the writers treat those who disagree with him as in the wrong. Then there are those awful drinking and joking scenes. And Ramsay basically defines Villain Sue.

Anyway I think Stannis will burn Shireen... when the Others have got past the Wall due to Euron blowing the horn (won't go into this here but Poor Quentyn Eldritch Apocalypse explains it). Stannis will think he has to sacrifice his daughter to save the world and do so. But alas, he isn't the hero and it will fail, paralleling the tragic story of Quentyn.

Yet while poor Quentyn's story was of someone who didn't want to be the hero of the story but thought he had to be, kept failing, didn't spot the foreshadowing and died, Stannis will fall far further. There will be a moment in TWOW where Stannis is in triumph. He will have Alexander Nevskyed the Freys to Cocytus. He will have ended the Bolton line. He might even have solved the Hornwood inheritance dispute. Davos, his loyal Hand, will have brought a son of Ned Stark back to the North. And then it will all fall apart...

The writers hated Stannis and threw him out, feeling he wasn't important. But he is important. The tragedy of Stannis isn't a man who does everything for ambition. The tragedy is a man who goes through character development and is on his way to becoming a good King, realizing
>that a king protects his people or he is no king at all.

He will do this, thinking it must happen in order to save his realm, that a King needs to put the good of the realm ahead of his own good. Now isn't that a tragic story, the man who tried to be the hero, had earned it... but just as some people are the chosen ones by prophecy, some people think they are but just can't get there, even though they are still a hero they are not the hero.pretty much agree with all points. But I adamantly believe Stannis won't kill Shireen. I think if anything Shireen will die as a result of people thinking that Stannis is dead due to the pink letter. I think it her death could be one of the first things we see happen in WOW> They have admitted in the interviews that they were not fans of his having read the books

They never said that.> At least his last line was quintessentially Stannis

If that was Stannis he would correct her that Renly was not rightful king but Usurper What is a Mary Sue character?> we really need to stop throwing around the term "Mary Sue" to refer to any female character we don't like who's as important/more important as a male character we do like.

FTFY> It's pretty clear in the books that his increasing reliance on Melissandre to deliver victories have lead him to horrible choices.

By "increasing reliance" do you mean leaving Mel at the wall and refusing to perform anymore burnings?

> faith in Melissandre and the Lord of Light.

"I stopped believing in gods the day I saw the Windproud break up across the bay. Any gods so monstrous as to drown my mother and father would never have my worship" 

Some "belief" Stannis hasWhat's the reason behind his giving up? That is the thing that made him a foolish commander. Not losing the battle. Why did he burn Shireen? Because some 20 good men could get into one of the best commander's camp and destroy his camp. This portrays him as foolish, not losing the battle or giving up. Read again.> like he had completely given up

Then they didn't get his character like at all. Stannis giving up? Really?Where's the lie tho?

They do understand honor - they are making the point that honor followed to rigidly has consequences. What does Stannis have to do with honor?  Also both Ned and Robb did die because of stupid mistakes.But...they did die from stupid mistakes. What makes you think they don't understand honor? Genuinely curious. I don't understand how you came to that conclusion.A friend of mine said at our little viewing party last night: "This show is great at dialog, but retarded at plot." And I think it sums D&D perfectly. They're great TV writers. They know what TV viewers want to watch, and they know how to make plot twist to make people feel smart for "getting it" five seconds before the reveal (as if it wasn't by design).

GoT is still one of the best things on TV by TV standards, but the tightly woven world simply isn't there. Everything is a contrivance to get you to the "OH SNAP!" moment. Lines that exist only to show escalations and maintain a tension that can't be broken because if it does than the moment will be forgettable within a week. "Bad poosey" aside, everything is perfectly tailored to get viewers hyped for an artificial tension: why have Cersei have a motivation behind her madness when we can just say "Cersei bad guy, look at her setting up bad guy stuff!. See the way Jaime's looking at her, that's how you know she's gonna do something *huge* later.I always find it cute when ASoIaF fans get such a hard-on for HONOR, as if the story hasn't shown time and time again that adhering blindly to a rigid code of honor is *not* a good quality and will more than likely get you nowhere but dead.Sansa said that; it may be her opinion because SHE doesn't understand honor. She was more than willing to ignore dishonorable behavior when she was hoping to get married to Joffrey and become queen;Really? Your takeaway message from the entire rant is that I must be sexist? Multiple people in this thread have mentioned issues I have with the scene of Brienne killing Stannis, including one person replying to you. No, it does not have anything to do with her having a penis and furthermore, I haven't visited this sub in months. But thank you for contributing with your generalizations and insulting assumptions.It probably has less to do with sexism and more to do with, 

A. How the fuck did Brienne even find Stannis in the first place without being intercepted by the hundreds of boltons in the area? 

B. It completely ruins her character as her whole dilemma was choosing between her desire for vengeance on stannis and her duty to protect Sansa. In the end Brienne choose vengeance. That would be fine except the very next episode she gets to save Sansa anyway. She basically got to keep her Cake ***and*** eat it.Not really. He's recruited at least a thousand northerners and there's a lot of infighting going on in Winterfell. Plus it looks like he has a plan (Nightlamp) to bait them out versus the show where he just marched directly on to it lolStannis' army is 80% northmen.

He also marched on Winterfell from Deepwood Motte, which should've only been a fortnight march according to the distance involved and his own northern allies who know the wolfswood and what it gets like during winter.

He also didn't actually "march on Winterfell" considering he marched to the crofter's village, and then planted himself there for almost 3 weeks until word reached Roose of his location, in the hopes that Roose would send out some men to deal with him there rather than he would have to siege Winterfell. Which worked.Isn't his army mostly northern? We only see it through asha's eyes and she was held captive in the backWhat was his other option, sit at the wall and freeze to death while also stealing from the already low food supply's of the watch? Sail back to dragonstone with his minimal amount of men and sit there until everyone abandons him and he gets killed when Loras storms dragonstone? Marching on Winterfell was the only choice, he needs to get momentum. Do you know the Night Lamp theory?

It is very likely that he has a good plan, the best possible for his situation.

Also, his army consists to a large/most part of Northerners, including the Mountain Clans.I don't believe for a minute that Stannis will burn Shireen. Selyse on the other hand... 

Stannis burning his daughter would be out of character for a number of reasons, but chief among them is that it turns this multi-dimensional character not fighting for pride, but fighting because he *is the king,* and part of the duty of being king is protecting his dynasty. Stannis isn't the kind of man to kill his daughter because there's no substitute for total victory, he's the kind of man who will hedge every bet to ensure that if he dies his daughter will sit that damn throne because it's now her rightful inheritance. 

As it stands (in book) we have Mel, Shireen and Selyse all at the wall, the first of whom fixated with two things: Jon Snow and burning people (particularly those with King's blood). Selyse is on board for everything Mel has to say. Mel says burn, Sel says how many. I believe Mel will burn Shireen to res Snow, Stannis will kill Selyse for it and *then* do his suicidal rush after the battle for Winterfell, maybe after killing his wife and Mel like the Azor Ahai of legend. I disagree entirely. It's almost logistically impossible for stannis to get anywhere near shireen until at least the end of the book.Have to agree, except about the Davos part - Davos showing up in their snowbound camp just doesn't seem like a credible fiction to present Stannis with. Thing is, they're getting desperate enough by the end of Dance, I'm not sure he's far from breaking. And they told us from the first book - Stannis is iron; strong, unyielding, but ultimately brittle.I'm sorry, its jsut really frustrating seeing this Subreddits delusional hatred for the showrunners at time. the constant whining about how they don't get it when people here don't even try to understand the constraints and limitations of running a show.Stannis isn't your family don't take it personally that I don't like him. 

And there's nothing that 99% of people agree on. I think you'd be surprised how many people don't like book stannis. 

I'm pretty sure you're not supposed ton like him also. He lacks charisma and operates in a false sense of duty. What was Edric Storm's crime?Even if that is true stannis still does it in a cowardly way so.... What does this mean for the people complaining about the people complaining about the people complaining in the first place?It's totally implied. Subtly. Very, very subtly. You have to read between the lines, then connect those dots to make new lines, then read between *those.* But it's totally there. Really.Brienne killing Stannis is about love, not claims to the throne. Why does nobody get this? Stannis loved Renly but chose to sacrifice him because he thought he was doing it for a higher purpose. He loved Shireen, but he sacrificed her too. Stannis always thinks about the big picture and stopping the long night, and to that end he will sacrifice something if he views it as necessary, as he says when he is planning to burn Gendry/Edric. This course of action eventually leads him to loose everyone he loves. Meanwhile, Renly knew the value of love and as a result, there are still people fighting in his name after his death. At the end, Srannis realizes he has no one anymore, no army, no family, no heir, no love because he sacrificed it for a false prophecy, hence why he accepts his death from BrienneStannis' wife kept the fetuses of her stillborn children in weirdass pickle jars. They were shown in early episodes that take place on Dragonstone.  Some qyburn level fucked up shit going on there, surprised mel didnt eat one.  

Perhaps, and I have considered that as well. I just think it makes for sense story and character wise for Stannis to be the one to go in that direction. Like I said, I feel like it was set up by the whole Edric Storm thing. That line made me dislike Brienne a lot. It made her sound stupid.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mary_Sue

Think Rey from The Force Awakens.It's not really well defined at this point. Originally it was a joke about fan fiction author self insert characters.

http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/MarySue

TV tropes doesn't seem list any of the Mary Sue labels on her page.

http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Characters/GameOfThronesDaenerysCourtAn obvious self-insert character that can do no wrong (at least, according to the moral framework of the author), typically an idealized version of the author to serve as wish fulfillment. Other characters you are supposed to like dote on this character all the time, and anyone who disagrees with this character is depicted as evil or wrong in some way. Oftentimes the character doesn't even have to do anything to earn the adoration of the other characters, or play an active role in the story at all, even if they are the main character (and they usually are). 


You see it a lot in fan fiction, which is where the term was first coined. But it shows up in published works as well. The two most obvious examples are Bella from Twilight and Anastasia from 50SoG (which itself originated as fan fiction). A stand in for the authors basically. Like they write a super duper powerful awesome character and then they can think "Man that would totally be me!" I think Jon fits that bill better myself.Thank you. Because the biggest Mary Sue in the series is and always has been Extra Special Silver Sparkle Prince Jon Snow and no one cares.So true. Though I have seen it thrown around at male characters as well, but not nearly to the same extent as female characters. Those are words... not actions.

- Has sex with Melisandre to launch a shadow beast to kill Renly.
- Gives Edric Storm to Melisandre against Davos' advice, although refused to let her sacrifice him. This is important, because we see an escalation later as Stannis gets more desperate. (And after seeing the success of the king's blood, Edric likely only lives because Davos smuggles him out).
- Stannis wants to execute Mance and is convinced by Melisandre to sacrifice him to the Lord of Light since he is also king's blood. Of course, Melisandre begins to drift away from Stannis at this point because she's beginning to see Jon as perhaps a better candidate to be Azor Ahai. But that doesn't stop Stannis from trying to burn "Mance" alive.

Given the escalation... and Stannis' increasing desperation... it's not crazy to think Shireen is at risk.Because he defeated himself. He ended his house. Burned his daughter alive. Murdered his wife. Half his army deserted. He was done. He just had to through the motions to get the release of death. 

He wasn't foolish, he was defeated. Stannis doesn't give up easily but anyone would give up once most of their army left and their wife and child are dead, the only other option he had was going north to the watch where he would spend the rest of his days feeling like a massive cunt for burning Shireen> What does Stannis have to do with honor?

Nothing. He'd rather kill his own brother using black magic than face him on the field of battle like a real honourable person would.    \>Implying that Ned didn't win in the endWhile Tuff Voyaging does make it clear that GRRM sees the most morally flexible person as the best ruler, he's hardly shown honor in bad light with several honorable character being shown as good or heroic.I think she understands very well as she had to suffer through the consequences of Ned's honor. You're giving D&D far too much credit for how much they understand Sansa as a character. Agree with that. Sansa has learned from Cersei, but ignores that Cersei's behaviour led to her losing her children and being in an almost unwinnable situation.Sometimes in life you do get to get your cake and eat it too. The world isn't always split in bad choices with favourable consequences and good choices with bad ones. A lot of literature and media is written this way these days and its really garbage. Sometimes the good guys who make the good decisions win, sometimes the bad guy fucks up but still gets things his way.Why have character nuance and a logically consistent world when we can give fans something to get hyped over? So do you think Dave and Dan lied, or George lied to Dave and Dan? To me it seems stannis entire arc is to be the tragic anti hero and lead to him burning shireen. You do know that D&D confirmed Stannis burning Shireen is what is planned in the books right?> And they told us from the first book - Stannis is iron; strong, unyielding, but ultimately brittle.

Who's "they"? The only person to directly describe Stannis as iron is Donal Noye, and that was in the second book, not the first. Also there is the fact that Donal Noye is completely wrong in his assessment of both Robert and Stannis because he hasn't seen them in over 20 years. 

He describes Robert as "true steel" despite the fact that Robert had become fat and allowed corruption to fester during his reign.

He describes Stannis has weak and brittle, and says he will break before he bends despite the fact his whole arc in dance with dragons shows the exact opposite(his compromises with the mountain clans, pardoning all of renly's bannermen).Why are you making baseless assumptions about me from one issue I have with the writing? As much as I dislike Stannis' portrayal, I still enjoy the show and think the showmakers have done a pretty great job overall. Stop generalizing.he had no crimes, that's why he was never killed Why is it more noble to kill ten thousand innocent men on the battlefield to defeat a traitor then to execute one traitor in his own campIt means there not as bad as the people complaining about the people complaining about the people complaining about the people complaining in the first place.wait wtf how did I not notice that

was this just in the show?Show Brienne is a rude, misogynistic, violent, jerk.Thanks for the explanation, that was excellent. And with my new knowledge of the term I'd agree with you that she's not really a Mary Sue. Sam is clearly GRRM's in universe avatar. Idk why jon gets called a Mary Sue either.  Terrible shit happens to him constantly and he is generally powerless to stop it.  He's never pursued leadership nor has he taken it for granted.  Also hes totally emo and lame and never does anything funny or particularly clever.  Idk whose wish Jon Snow is fulfilling, but whoever it is is lame. 

Oh look its Jon Snow! I bet he has to do some joyless tedious task which goes unrewarded and ultimately proves fruitless!  If anything dolorous edd is mary sue.  A he is hilarious and B all he had to do to become lord commander was wait for everyone else to die.  Lucky bastard > I think Jon fits that bill better myself.

Nah, he doesn't fit the bill either. He makes way too many mistakes and has way too many flaws to be one, at least in the books. But even in the show he's a huge spoiled brat when he arrives at the Wall and has to get called out on it by Aemon, Benjen and Tyrion. Oh ffs. Jon and Dany both mmake quite visible misstakes. Jon Gets himself killed because he is too focused on the white walkers to care about the discontent of his own men, eventually allowing it to boil over. He also thinks in a far too straightforward manner and assumes enemies iwll face him honourably on the battlefield as he was educated by Ned and has predominantly fought the free folk, who share many values of honour and bravery with the northerners. This line of thinking nearly gets him killed by Ramsay in the battle of the bastards because his honourable line of thinking hadn't expected Ramsay's style of emotionally manipulating his enemies. Even now, after being elected king, Jon continues to be set in his own mindset, refusing advice and making controversial decisions without thinking about how the bannermen who elected him might feeel about it

As for Dany, her inability to adapt her sense of justice alienated both sides Mereen. She was merciless to the Masters when she arrived and turned them against her, then refused to spare the slave who killed a son of the harpy, causing outrage amongst the freed slaves. She responded to Barristans death by brutally killing innocent men with dragonfire, only to then later relent and marry Hizdahr at a point when the rest of the masters had stopped listening to him as he was a moderate leader who now married what they percieved as an extremist. Through her burning of masters, Dany made her marriage appear to them as if she was subjugating them through her marriage rather than trying to mediate. Then upon her return, she would have comitted fiery genocide on three cities if not for Tyrion reminding her of her father's madness. Neither of these characters are flawless, and their traditional fantasy hero traits are what get them into trouble more often than notHow many armies/magical creatures have flocked to Dany with little to no effort on her part? I've lost count at this point.He's not one either. I'd say book Dany is a bigger MS than Jon but there both up there, Jon is a bit more subtle in his sueness compared to Dany. > Has sex with Melisandre to launch a shadow beast to kill Renly.

We still do not have 100% conclusive proof that Stannis had sex with Mel to create the shadow baby. Considering how Stannis thinks back on the event it seems Stannis didn't even know he killed renly until **after** it happened. 

Also even if he had planned to intentionally kill renly and purposely created a shadow baby to do so, he was 100% justified. Renly was a complete traitor and planned to ride Stannis down with 15k Calvary vs Stannis 4K infantry. Renly planned to completely slaughter his older brother and rightful king like a dog because he wouldn't forsake his duty.

> Gives Edric Storm to Melisandre against Davos' advice, although refused to let her sacrifice him. This is important, because we see an escalation later as Stannis gets more desperate. (And after seeing the success of the king's blood, Edric likely only lives because Davos smuggles him out).

Can you really blame him? From Stannis point of view even just 3 drops of kings blood is enough to kill Joffrey, Robb, and Balon. As a king he had to seriously consider killing Edric if it meant saving the realm from further bloodshed. 

Anyways, Despite being justified in at least considering the action, Stannis later thanks Davos for smuggling Edric away, showing that he has the capacity to admit wrongdoing and change for the better, a rare trait in asoiaf.

> Stannis wants to execute Mance and is convinced by Melisandre to sacrifice him to the Lord of Light since he is also king's blood. Of course, Melisandre begins to drift away from Stannis at this point because she's beginning to see Jon as perhaps a better candidate to be Azor Ahai. But that doesn't stop Stannis from trying to burn "Mance" alive.

***WHAT?*** Stannis never intended to have Mance executed. His whole plan from the beginning was to have Mance infiltrate winterfell to rescue Arya. Also Melisandre at this point in the books still thinks Stannis is AA, she knows Jon has power as a warg but doesn't think he's AA yet.




And why did all these things happen? Because some 20 good men wrecked havoc in the army camp of one of the greatest military tacticians. People are calling him foolish because he let Ramsay destroy his army. Not because of the aftermath.I see your point but remember that this would have been a battle where countless men died fighting while the two brothers would have never come close to eachother. So in a way Stannis avoids all of that. Unless you meant single combatI don't know what part of "gets you killed" isn't showing inflexible honor as a bad quality...If Sansa hadn't grassed up her father, she and Arya could have been out of King's Landing. I don't recall if she did it in the show, though.Except the show even paints Brienne in bad light, literally a second after walking away to go murder the mannis, Sansa lights the candle. Brienne neglects her vow to Catelyn and abandons Sansa but somehow is rewarded for it. With how Brienne is characterized she should be appalled at herself for making such a choice.I think Shireen will be burnt, and George was honest if/when he told them that was something that would happen, however I think (and I base this solely on how they've handled other plot points that are big in the books but muddy the TV narrative) that they truncated the event into an overly simplistic narrative that satisfies the "Stannis = bad guy" motif they've been using ever since they made [this](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9szldJEzD5U) his theme music. 

I think the show has always mishandled the character, and, while it's not a controversial statement that the show is different from the books, largely he's proven an inconvenience for them as TV writers since the end of season 4. In The inside the episode of S5E9 where this comes from, the exact words David uses are "When George told us of this moment" however it's not clear whether he's referring to Stannis burning shireen or just her burning in general.  

Also in the exact same clip they say things like "Stannis chooses ambition over his daughter" and "Once Stannis makes a decision he **Never** changes his mind which is blatantly false. So clearly they don't understand Stannis's character in some ways.Varys calls Stannis terrifying. "There is no creature on earth half so terrifying as a truly just man". 

Tywin: "I have felt from the beginning that Stannis was a greater danger than all the others combined."

They fear him for a good reason. its not baseless when you title your post "why do D&D Hate Stannis so much"

you can not like a plotline all you want, but to say they hate a character because you don't like the direction they went with is so ignorant. lol. He wasn't killed cause Davos freed him. If Davos, teh biggest Stannis fanboi alive, thinks Stannis would kill Edric, we can assume he was planning on it. That's not why stannis does it and you know it. 

Also Westerosi standards of honor say that.  

It's like when people try to justify Hiroshima and nagasaki by saying we saved the lives of countless soldiers. It's total bullshit that doesn't negate the shitty thing you didThis is confusing. I'm going to complain about this.*they'reThis was never mentioned in the books. Yea i dont remember any mention of it in the books.  I mean his wife is even fuckin weirder in the books if thats possible, but i dont remember. 

[hope this link works](https://lovelace-media.imgix.net/uploads/949/3f55feb0-f042-0132-f0c8-0ed54733f8f5.gif?w=740&h=397&fit=max&auto=format)  im on mobile so sorry.  But yea just google it.  Weird shit dudeYou know fair enough. Fat awkward not a real fighter, but the source of important ancient knowledge Sam is really a stand in for self aware GRRM. If only popinjay had been his mary sue in the Wildcards books.I just mean better than dany. I actually think GRRM is a good enough writer to avoid that pitfall.Neither are Mary Sues. Sure, they both fit plenty of other tropes to varying degrees, but that alone does not a Mary Sue make. 

They both fuck up. A lot. They both get called out. A lot. They both actively contribute to their narratives and earn admiration from others (and even then, not everyone). He's a secret dragon prince that everyone falls in love with on sight and follows for no reason at all, who is always right and just and handsome and wins no matter what. Dany makes a lot of mistakes and does a lot of really offputting things, people follow her because she has dragons and she has dragons because of her own actions, which at least is something. Why people just auto-follow a kid like Jon is beyond me. 

They both are, but only Dany ever gets called on it, and she has yet to come back from the dead or be the center of everyone's Chosen One fantasies.> Considering how Stannis thinks back on the event it seems Stannis didn't even know he killed renly until after it happened.

He still gave the order to kill his own brother. Stannis is a kinslayer and generally a piece of shit no matter how the fanbois try to spin it.**What???** Stannis thinks Mance is dead. Mel used her power to switch Mance and Rattleshirt because Jon convinced Mel that Mance could be valuable. She does that without Stannis' knowledge and without Jon's knowledge. Stannis definitely intended to have Mance executed and believes it was carried out. It was Mel who planned to have Mance go rescue Arya. Why would Stannis care about Arya? Mel cares because she's beginning to come around to Jon being AA.depending on what type of person you are, one might prefer death over betraying your ideals.A 12 yo made stupid decision based on narcissism and hormones? You don't say... Your salt is showing> the exact words David uses are "When George told us of this moment" however it's not clear whether he's referring to Stannis burning shireen or just her burning in general.

Dude you're stretching. Is it really that hard to just accept that GRRM told them that is how it went down?Oh is the wording of the title what triggered you? I should've changed it to "Why did D&D portray Stannis so terribly?" Happy? It's kind of rich that you're talking about ignorance when you don't even seem aware of the fact that they have admitted to not liking Stannis in the books, which is undeniably a sign of bias. And it's just plain foolish to think every single change I pointed out in this post was only done because of the limitations of adapting the show. D&D have made plenty of changes that are widely considered to have been bad. But I'm done arguing with someone who clearly has no intention of having a healthy discussion. Stay classy.Davos knew that all the lords that believe in Red God would pressure Stannis into sacrificing Edric, that's why he freed himWar is full of shitty things. Firebombing was horrific. The only way to stop the horrors of war is to end the war. The Bombs did that bc they made Japan surrender. Idk why you chose Hiroshima and Nagasaki to prove your point when they were justified steps by USA that probably DID save countless soldiers lives and were much better than firebombing of TokioAh, gotcha! You make a fair point, I agree. Still I think things go their way a little too much and a little to perfectly for my tastes(same with Tyrion) but over all you're right.>she has yet to come back from the dead or be the center of everyone's Chosen One fantasies.

Haha, that's true.  Jon and Dany are almost the same character and storyline with a few minor personality discrepancies.>  or be the center of everyone's Chosen One fantasies.

False. Most of the red priests have declared that she is Azor Ahai reborn IIRC.No one follows Jon "on command"  or loves him on sight. Hell, the reason he dies in the first place is because he's an extremely shitty and controversial leader. He breaks his vows for some wildling pussy and is a total asshat to all the other recruits in the first book. Yea Dany has struggled as well but she's accomplished a lot more compared to Jon. I'm not arguing that he's not a Marty sue(he is) but at this point Dany is the greater sue.

However it's very possible that if Jon is revealed as the magical secret king of destiny, defeats the others with his magic sword, marrys Dany and becomes the best king the realm ever saw, then yea he will probably be the bigger MS.RENLY was going to ducking slaughter Stannis, what don't you understand? I'd hardly call self defense "kinslaying".Stannis definitely knows Mance and Rattleshirt were switched out considering

- Godry, one of Stannis' top lieutenants, cuts off "Mance" after Mance tries to say "they" are lying to everybody
- Mel explicitly says that Jon convinced Stannis the law need not apply at the Wall
- Mance explicitly says Stannis burned the man he had to be seen to burn
- Stannis was planning on leaving only Rattleshirt behind at the Wall before Jon convinced him to leave all of the wildlings, despite Rattleshirt's reputation as a rapist and raider while Selyse and Shireen were at the WallConsider the logistics of breaking Mance and rattelshirt out of prison, and glamoring both of them especially rattleshirt who 100% would be resisting. There would have to be multiple men involved in the operation and Stannis would have to be aware. 

Also, arya and Theon are 100% more useful to Stannis then Mel, having Arya gives him a trueborn stark to place in winterfell and secure the north and having theon gives him intel and further wins over the north by executing him. Also it's possible Mance had a secondary objective besides freeing Arya and Theon, especially if you're a subscriber to Mance/Stannis wrote the pink letter.I've always found the "Death Before Dishonor" mindset extremely tedious tbh...Yeah, Sansa was a kid. She's seen that Joffrey and Cersei are arseholes, though, plus, she had no reason to distrust her dad. That said, I remember being 12. My friends did a lot of stupid shit.Look at my flair. I proudly show my salt as a banner for the world to see. However nothing I said was untrue.It just seems logistically impossible at this point in the books, especially since melisandre has a 10x more compelling reason to burn(bring back Stannis who she thinks is dead).

I think if Stannis wrote the pink letter or Stannis plan caused Ramsay to write it he will be indirectly responsible for her burning which I think is more tragic.There is no healthy discussion on here, just a delusional rage at the showrunners because they changed the storyline of your favorite character.

They have not made plenty of changes that have been widely considered bad. its only been considered bad on this subreddit of hyper critical over entitled brats.

there can be no healthy discussion on this subreddit. but we ended the war at what cost? 200K innocent lives lost in a few minutes? The logic doesnt make sense. The only way to stop the horrors is to commit the biggest below the belt atrocity?  Why bother? 

The US didnt do do it to stop the atrocity - we did it to secure a position of power. Dont tell yourself any different.  Wars are not won for benevolent reasons. 

Dont drink the kool-aid. Call a spade a spade.  You can say you agree with the use of atomic bombs - but don't say you agree because it was done to spare the world of the injustices of war - say it was done for power. Soldiers lives < lives of civilians. 

That's like... The first rule of discussing war atrocities. 

There's a huge difference in killing soldiers and killing civillians. You seem intent on ignoring crucial aspects of situations to do mental gymnastics to justify the morality of stannis. 

Don't bother - he's an immoral coward that masquerades as a person with honor. 

> Still I think things go their way a little too much and a little to perfectly for my tastes(same with Tyrion) 

Oh for sure! It definitely tests my willing suspension of disbelief at times. I think I'm just willing to let it slide for the sake of plot expediency (it's taking Daenerys long enough as it is!)But those Red priests are NPCs and not characters.> No one follows Jon "on command" or loves him on sight. Hell, the reason he dies in the first place is because he's an extremely shitty and controversial leader. He breaks his vows for some wildling pussy and is a total asshat to all the other recruits in the first book. 

Then he's not a Marty Stu. 

> Yea Dany has struggled 

Then she's not a Mary Sue. 

> However it's very possible that if Jon is revealed as the magical secret king of destiny, defeats the others with his magic sword, marrys Dany and becomes the best king the realm ever saw, then yea he will probably be the bigger MS.

Even if all those turn out to be true, that still wouldn't necessarily make him a Marty Stu. Just other tropes. 
>  He breaks his vows for some wildling pussy and is a total asshat to all the other recruits in the first book.

Which basically everyone forgives him over and neither are anything the readers hold against him.I mean...I'm pretty sure that's where we're going. He is the magical secret immortal king of destiny, he has a magic Other-defeating sword, and he's gonna hit that, even if she's his aunt. GOT isn't...always THAT different from the fantasy it's reacting to. Just more swearing and tits and wine and violence.It isn't self defense when you throw the first punch.  The conflict between the two officially started with Stannis attacking Storm's End.  Before that Stannis wasn't a blip on Renly's radar.[removed]But boy! It sure is honorable to get killed for your "honor" and fuck things up for all the men who follow you, just so you can say that you are honorable!She also immediately regrets it and tries to fix itI mean, do you believe that GRRM just lied to D&D then? You think D&D when they say "George told us of this moment" you genuinely think that he didn't tell them Stannis did it?How many innocent lives were lost due to firebombing Tokyo every night? People were literally burned alive.  How many innocent lives would have been lost during an invasion? How many innocent lives did the Japanese bring to an end?

Wars can certainly be won for benevolent reasons eg stoping the nazis. 

I clearly said that the bombs were used to end the war. I never said anything about injustice or future wars. 

War is all about power. 
you seem to be ignoring context of nuclear bombing to call it immoral war atrocity because "some lives are worth more than the other". There was no visible alternative to make Japan surrender that cost less lives or in just as short time, making sure commies can't invade Japan.

And I don't understand how you want to pin it down on Stannis, some who have not killed anyone but traitors or cannibals, nothing compare to Tyrion, Arya(wants to kill anyone who so much as looked at her wrong way), Dany or Cercei who kill civilians without impunity if that suits themFair point. I concede.Not sure if you remember that part, but pretty much every other Night's Watch brother spent his free time with whores over a Mole's Town. It'd be hypocritic to blame Jon for a single mistake, especially since he had to do it to ensure wildlings dont' suspect him of spying.Because celibacy is stupid and characters (especially 14-year-olds) have flaws that they are supposed to overcome. He learns and grows. Otherwise he would actually be a Marty Stu (he's not). Idk, I have read some George's other works, he rarely evert ends stories that black and white. Even though he has said the ending is "bittersweet" I think George's idea of bittersweet is a lot different from ours.Let's be real, one way or another Renly was going to eventually going to gun for Stannis. Stannis even thinks back when talking with Stannis and says he regrets that the situation cane to that point, but Stannis has no other choice if he even wanted a chance at taking the throne.[removed]I suppose so.I have no fucking clue what GRRM said to D&D, I wasn't there. For all we know George explained to them that Stannis set in to motion a complex chain of events that eventually caused shireen's death. 

I genuinely have no clue want GRRM said to D&D, all I know is based on book information it would be very logistically(something GRRM pays close attention to) difficult for Stannis to personally burn shireen. Unless he orders it by raven but that's very OoC for Stannis to do.The Nazis weren't stopped bc of their crimes against humanity - they were stopped because they were a threat to power structures we benefit from. 

One atrocity doesn't justify another. That's like saying it would have been chill to genocide Germans bc that's what they were doing. 

Americans like to bitch about Pearl Harbor but what we did in Japan was orders of magnitude worse. >"some lives are worth more than the other"

Im not ignoring it, it's literally the first sentence of my post. Who the fuck downvoted this comment? And why?Then as I mentioned one cannot consider that action a flaw of Jon's.  but Dany is dragged for banging Daario. Making those flaws nothing more than flaws in name only.Don't get me wrong, I think all that will happen, but somehow it won't feel good or right in the end. That's his style. LOTR ending but you feel like garbage and none of it seems like it's actually good. 

But I still think we're headed there. The curtains will just be black when we arrive.If Stannis stayed on Dragonstone sulking I doubt Renly would have given him more than a second thought.  As an older brother myself, I wouldn't act in a subservient role, and the age difference between me and my nearest sibling is nowhere near the whopping 14 years that separate Stannis and Renly. That would have been a major loss of face for Stannis, he would look like a joke for the rest of his life.Well I guess living in blatant denial has its merits on some issues. you understood me wrong, you're ignoring context of bombing and saying that some lives are worth more than the otherNo idea. Another comment in this thread has around 40+ upvotes, yet when I posted a comment agreeing with that one, mine got downvoted to hell. People on reddit confuse me. This is true, and I agree that it is a huge double standard. The truth is neither are wrong for sleeping with someone. Huh?maybe. But I'll ask you question, when the war of five kings started based on information Stannis had what should he have done?Actually at what point do they say that Stannis burns Shireen? They just said that Shireen dies, that's it. Bear in mind that Stannis doesn't worship R'hllor, which is the whole reason why his southern forces are so divided in the first place. He's grown more distant from Mel and has even left her at The Wall with his fanatical wife while he takes Winterfell. He's ordered no more burning's and is reliant on the support of the northmen who probably wouldn't take kindly to burning an innocent girl at the stake. He's no longer in the desperate and seemingly hopeless situation that he was in ASOS, he's poised to win a great victory and put himself back on the Lannister's radar. And, he's ordered his men to keep fighting to place Shireen on the throne in the event of his death, meaning he fully understands the importance of having an heir. 

In all it seems pretty damn unlikely that Stannis is the one to order Shireen's death. My guess is that he'll go into isolation at the Nightfort after Selyse and Mel burn her and his army will make their final stand against the Others when The Wall falls. Also wouldn't that make Jon's resurrection in the books so much more interesting. He'll know that the only reason he's alive is because a little girl died.I'm not denying anything D&D have never outright said "George told us Stannis Baratheon burns shireen in the books"

All they said is "when George told of us this moment" which was incredibly unclear whether it was referring specifically Stannis burning shireen or just her burning in general. I mean his flair is literally "Still Salty over Stannis' death", he's a fanboy, it's pointless to argue > If Jaime is Aerys son, Aerys might not have wanted his son to carry on a legacy in the Lannister name. So, Aerys removed Jaime's ability to create a legacy entirely by putting him on the Kingsguard. Further, it would mean his son was physically near him instead of at Casterly Rock.

I'd have thought that Aerys, prick that he was, would have found it amusing that he's ruined Tywin's legacy.All cool thoughts, I like it. 

Aerys had become begrudging to Rhaegar around this time so it makes sense he'd want to draw another son in close. I don't think Targaryens have some genetical attraction to their kin, since there are plenty of examples of them marrying into other families.

Though if some of Tywin's kids have to be secret targs, I would prefer if they were Cersei and Jaime, since Tyrion's character is made much better by him being Tywin's only true child.I'm pretty sure it was as much jaimes idea as it was aerys to stay with cersei and spite his father to join kings guard No. Cersei sexually manipulated him into agreement and did all the footwork herself. As my father has always told me, "a stiff dick has no conscience", meaning you always have to be thinking with the head on your shoulders because when you're solely thinking with the head between your legs, you're gonna make some really stupid mistakes that you'll certainly live to regret.Can we ask our Bran to take a peek into his thwarted assassination attempt and  put the mystery to rest?Who has a raven? I'm just not buying it's anyone else other than Joffrey. I know there are a few leaps in logic with this 'solution' but nothing as staggering as the geographical distances between Littlefinger and Winterfell. Or that I just don't feel like it fits Mance's character. But maybe that's just me. in book i guess Mance. But in show wasnt it Jaimie? he talks about it with Cersei if i remember correctly.  > And my money is on Littlefinger being behind the attack

How could LF been behind the attack? He was in King's Landing and the attempted killing was too soon for him to have been able to successfully organize it. My money is that it was just an easter egg to remind viewers of the dagger, the attack, and Ned's betrayal by LF so that it's not as confusing when it comes back in to play in an episode or two. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Great idea! I forgot he can do that whenever now.The whole thing is so unsatisfying to me. That's why I wouldn't be surprised it D&D changed it up to better fit the story they are telling. 

In the books, I haven't found a solution that feels right. Mance clearly has some elaborate plan, so maybe it's part of that, but I agree that it feels very out of character. He would have to have some extremely good reason to try to kill a little crippled boy. Maybe he knew Bloodraven was going to use Bran and was trying to prevent it for some reason? Lots of ifs. what in the world are you talking about? Mance??It definitely wasn't Jamie. He talks to Cersei about it being joff. Really? I don't remember it being solved on the show, but I also haven't done a rewatch in ages. 

Mance is an interesting idea. He has some plan and was at Winterfell at the right time. I don't think I've heard that theory though - why would he want to kill Bran?> How Littlefinger knew of Bran's fall from King's Landing and got someone in position to finish the job is up in the air, but if this is a show-only explanation, then he probably just used his jetpack. 

The timeline doesn't really work, but I think the show could get around that with a sentence. How do you think the dagger is going to come back into play in a couple episodes, if not part of the Littlefinger's downfall plotline? Joff is old news, learning that he sent the catspaw doesn't advance anything narratively.I mean I hope I'm wrong. I would like to see it be someone other than Joffrey... the reasonings behind it are pretty weak and don't get stronger the more you read into it. I love Preston but I can't help but feel he reads too much into individual lines of dialogue that took GRRM seconds to write - sometimes. Again, I hope I'm wrong. i was talking about the show, and yes it definitely was Jamie on the show. S01E03-27:20. Check it yourself!i think Mance knows something about the specialty of Brandon Stark. It seems odd to me that Mance has wargs, giants and several clans at his side, but never really speaks of finding the COTF or their greenseer. Obviously he is not the Last Hero, but still for years he searched for Joramuns horn. Afterall he is trying to destroy something a Brandon Stark once built if his folk cannot pass the wall. imo Mance distrusts the COTF as he distrusts Starks in general. Thats why i believe he didnt give the order as a mercy, but to stop the next becoming greenseer (Beal the Bard 2.0?).

If you consider Mance being Arthur Dayne than the fun begins :) It will be brought up in LF's downfall plot, but not in regards to the attack on Bran, at least directly. There's no one alive that knows that the dagger was used for the attack, except for LF so no one can confirm or deny it. On the other hand, Bran can get a look at what happened to Ned and everything that built up to that point, and if the Hound is there, he can also confirm it since he was in the throne room when it happened. 

Where the dagger comes in to play is that it'll be used to kill LF, in the largest dose of poetic justice in the history of television. Tyrion knows the dagger was used for the attack doesn't he?I love the idea that he's killed with that dagger. D&D like their poetic endings (see Ramsey) so that's probably a correct. I'm not sure who will weld it though - Sansa makes sense but I don't see her swinging the blade herself.

I still think that the show will pin everything on LF in order to tie things up neatly. Or at least heavily imply that's the case so the average watcher isn't left more questions. 

Maybe I'm just so underwhelmed by the Joff solution that I want the show to do something different. Oh snap, he sure does! I've haven't been considering Tyrion, but considering he was the one framed, it makes sense that he would be the one who solves things. I wonder if there will be a big parlor scene either at Winterfell or Dragonstone where everything will come out. There's plenty of time for that.

I think instead they are lulling the audience. 

His scenes on Pyke were pretty neutral. They made him quite compelling and light in this scene. Then I think they're going to gradually unravel what a nasty fucker he is. Balon already detailed Euron's ship and crew in their bridge confrontation. While seeing the ship would help, I think his madness is already significantly established.I'm gutted how far off the mark they are with Euron. My image of him in my head from reading the books was this insane, purple lipped? Long haired eye patched legend. Instead we get a washed up rockstar with a weird ass accent.

Hopefully his character arc does something awesome. I was hoping to really see the Silence too (I want that red deck!) but it looks like they are going in a more mundane direction with Euron, and I don't really blame them. There isn't enough time to make him a Cthulhu-summoning magical demon god, so they are going with more of a comical, everyday crazy. 

He's nuts and not too smart but the Iron Born are nuts and not too smart, so now he's their King.  

They could still give us that red deck though. It's a great visual. I think we'll see it in his next scene. I think they still were kind of keeping it suspenseful as to which greyjoy was heading to king's landing when they showed those ships. So they let Cersei have the reveal that she invited him.I think we will see this in the next episode. His "gift" for Cersei is most likely the heads of some of the Sand Snakes or Yara, so he will race the Iron Fleet down south and engage the Greyjoy/Martell fleet. And this is when we will see the Silence and his mutes in action. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Agreed.. I didn't expect book Euron to show up. I just think showing Silence and her crew will make him even more crazy... I like book Euron :(Wasn't too suspenseful since they played his musicI don't think so because, at least in the show, Euron, Yara (Asha), Theon and maybe Aeron (he's never mentioned by name in the show but he's there) are the only Greyjoys alive, and since Yara and Theon are with Dany, there is really no suspense at which Greyjoy will arive at King's Landing I'm going to guess his gift to Cersei will be Ellaria Sand brought in alive for retribution over Myrcella. He's most likely going to bring her tyrion The showrunners have been pretty vocal in saying that Euron would be absolutely worse than the villains before him. I don't think they'll show us with the Sand Snakes. Nobody even likes the Sand Snakes.For some reason I thought his gift will be the dragonbinding warhorn he has in the books... Without spoiling much, i can say that You'll probably like next weeks episode. Me too. Fingers crossed that we get more Silence this season, with some nods to the book. I can imagine Euron inviting Cersei on board for a tour and her being like "Ooooh fuuuuuuucccc...."Or Ellaria Sand.  While Tyrion would be the golden prize for her, Ellaria would be a very close second place.  Especially for the potential to torture her. Yeah I don't think the show is doing that. They would have introduced it at the Kingsmoot like in the books. If the Cersei-Euron alliance is going to happen, he's going to have to hold off showing at least some of his crazy to her for a bit. I'm also hoping we get more in the next couple of episodes, when he's not in the presence of his potential Queen.  Fucc👌I feel like without some kind of twist regarding the dragons, the odds are stacked in favor of Dany's army. Plenty of things in the show have been introduced later and in a different situation.  The horn makes the most sense.  You've got a point, but they didn't show his mutes  either, so I guess we're both equally correct/wrong. 
Cunt. There are three ice giants we've seen. How many giants does it take to turn a dragon?I'm assuming /u/CoolStoryMoe is someone who has named their sword?What's with the last word?All the best swords have names"I make joke" ~Greyworm 300 agWhat enigmatic post ? Awww man, this is why I took a six month break from this sub, I burnt out after 5 years on the hype train.

Guess I'm back on, choo choo assholes.His end is nigh post is talking about the end of the wait for season 7 and, in general, the eventual end of the series in ~13 episodes over this year and the next. Currently, he's busy typing the letter "J" onto the next word of the sentence he's writing. It's a capital "J" so it's a name, but not necessarily "Jon Snow" although it could very well be Jon Snow. George won't know until two weeks from now as he contemplates just *who* this "J" belongs to.There goes my productivity for the day. 
On to the hype train (again).Has anyone considered that maybe he just  liked the artwork?What is wrong with you people5! spin off series!?!?! > Seven seasons... that's still hard to believe. Where have the years gone? 

"Where do whores go?"This is the Summer of George!It's probably a teaser for the *Fire and Blood* Targaryen history/"GRRMarillion" that has been previously announced. Surprised nobody seems to have thought about that... Why would he be teasing TWOW with a Valyria image?

It makes no sense, hype has clouded y'alls vision...>One more season to go for GOT... but with five (5!) potential pilots in development, it seems likely that there will be one or more successor shows along eventually. I'd love to tell you all about them, but then I'd have to kill you. They're all prequels, though, I let that slip already, and several of them are....

At this point he is actively trying not to finish WoWI wonder who will be cast for Rhaegar in one of the prequel spin-offs he references?Um, guys? Is this a new addition to his appearances schedule? 

"July 13-14 2018
ThrillerFest XIII- held at the Grand Hyatt, New York City- details TBA"

I could have sworn that only Worldcon 2018 was on there before.
Oh OP, you sweet summer child Why does everyone think this means TWOW is almost done? Im clearly missing something...We have new material coming out right now. In two months that will dry up for possibly more than a year. I say enjoy what we are getting right now, and then afterwards we can go back to theorizing about GRRM's fart intervals.Current mood busy? That means at least another 5 years! No need to get hyped until there's an announcement. And it will be announced months before the actual release date. Valar HyperisThis is getting out of my hands. I'm hyping too close to the sun and I'm afraid of burning my hype. Am I the only one that thinks one of his new spin off pilots for HBO is probably the reason for this post? Tag as ASOIAF be damnned....I hope George gets to redo his cameo before the end of the series, looking forward to the next book and the next episode!> and several of them are...

He's just straight up fucking with people at this point, lmao. George is the conductor and we're all stuck on his crazy trainOr the thing was so obviously about the premiere that just happened he doesnt feel the need to revisit it. He wouldn't announce it before the end of the season regardless, right?I think he's just shithousing.  Stay relevant while your life work is about to be spoiled and ended by TVInteresting ending, maybe I am reading it wrong but ending his sentence with "and several of them are...." and then following his post history into "Alas, Valyria" makes me wonder if that was a nod that the prequel is Valyria?> Get hyped!

No. Either there's an announcement or there isn't. 

None of this, "oh, but his mood is busy and he's in Santa Fe and his comments are disabled and he tagged his post as lemon cakes and there's a solar eclipse and he has a new blog coming soon and he'll be at SuperMegaWorldDragonCon and he's not talking about TWOW therefore this post is a tease about TWOW" crap.    A new season, huh? Winter is a season! WOW confirmed!Am I the only one who thinks that the only reason he's turning off all the comments lately is so that he doesn't want to to have to deal with a bunch of people asking when TWOW will be done anymore?I recently say an analysis that speculated that because the Valyria quote was an adaptation of a quote from Revelations 18:10 (KJV), it's possible it's a coded reference hinting TWOW will drop 10/18, i.e. October 18thIt wasn't enigmatic unless you wear tinfoil. looks like he's set to announce it after this season thenThis basically means it has to be about TWOW. Spinoffs are still being produced and none of them have been chosen over the other, so the post wasn't about a Valyria/Doom spin off. *And* that totally wasn't his "goodbye to NotABlog" post...No  one wants to believe  me, but it's just a picture he liked.He is the most unprofessional writer in modern history, it is truly amazing.  He just doesn't produce. Please god I can only do so many rereads Honestly, I don't care anymore about his mysterious cryptic posts. When he's ready to send the manuscript off to editors, let him make a simple and straightforward statement: "I'm finished." --- and then I will say: "Yay, in a couple of months, I will find out how the show diverges from a bigger portion, yet still not the whole, canon and I am mildly excited about that."

For now though, there is the show, we have the first episode, which I enjoyed, the plot is moving forward, things are happening, the show versions of the characters whose fictional fates I care about are doing stuff and it's actually very exciting to watch.

What is hype may never die! At the same time as his post Duolingo released High Valyrian as a language you can learn. Pretty sure everyone is hyping over nothing...I think when the book is finally announced I'm going to be walking around in a happy fog for about a month. The Valyria post is probably about the TV show pilots that are in the works. The "..." at the end of the "A New Season" post pretty much solidifies that in my mind. If they're all prequels, one interpretation is that its because its impossible to do a sequel series. . .because everyone in Westeros is dead! Maybe his jokes about the red comet hitting Westeros weren't actually a joke! I see hype in the flamesSame old teasing as ever.
Bring on those prequels!"He didn't say anything about TWOW, that means he's definitely talking about TWOW." 

No offense, but I feel like I've seen this go around a dozen times or so since 2013. GRRM's blog posts today actually made me think that the Valyria post was about the prequel series.

First, regarding comments being turned off--I think the reason that they're still turned off is that GRRM either forgot to turn them back on or can't figure out how to do so. (If anyone here actually knows about how Livejournal works, please let me know if you can set some kind of default for comments being off, or if you have to manually do that for each post.)

Second, the most compelling argument (for me) against the Valyria post being about the prequels is that it's tagged with "a song of ice and fire" instead of "hbo" or "game of thrones". But today's post makes me think that he really doesn't want to explicitly give anything away while still teasing us about the prequels. He thought that tagging it with "hbo" or something would give that away.

Finally the ellipsis at the end of his post leads to...the next post below, which is the Valyria post, making me think they're related.Hype is sustained. It's been my gut feeling that he'd be most likely to finish in July or October. Now trying to quit hitting the refresh button on GRRM's blog 20 times a day.I just saw that he made [another post](http://grrm.livejournal.com/543705.html). The comments are disabled for this one, too. I think it's so that he doesn't have to respond to people - I think he knows someone's going to ask him about the "Alas, Valyria" post lol. I can't handle that much hype.I honestly don't know what to believe anymore.SDCC announcement or WorldCon announcement?Hype to the East

Hype to the West 

Hype to the South

Hype to the North


The great book is here! 

https://twitter.com/javimgol/status/887003961479352322

Translated:
"Perhaps there is good news about winter winds in Helsinki (GRRM will go to the Worldcon). I don't know. Hopefully" Linda Antonsson

And of course /u/BryndenBFish is fanning the flames on twitter.
It has to be Winds right?... RIGHT?Cryptic bullshit from the guy who said there would be nothing cryptic about him finishing TWOW? > he is really close to finishing, but doesn't want to announce it just yet, until he is completely done. I hope.

The words of house /r/asoiaf for the past 4 years.Is the enigmatic post you're referring to the one about Valyria?  Because that was probably in reference to High Valyrian being released on Duolingo.I hope the release date is sometime after season 7. i want time for a re read but don't want to watch the show and read the books at the same time. Otherwise I just get worn out and get plot lines confused. Grrm plz!! Some of us aren't summer children!
We are old and experienced men! We suffered through the long 12 days of Christmas back then, when the snow was 5 feet deep and the hype train was derailed badly...
And of course.. the new year post days.. how can a man forget? 
Please don't do it for us for the third time..He says they're prequels and this post ends by saying several of them are "...". 

Of course, right below this post on his blog is the notorious post about Valyria. We couldn't be getting a pre-Doom Valyria spinoff, could we? I can only imagine the budget for such a show! 

**HYPE**Two hours (metaphorically) until TWOW is done.

**TWO HOURS!**

Almost there. [If you're wrong op...](http://i.imgur.com/vTYcPMi.gif) I think the announcement will be first post on the new blog.Tagged: "game of thrones" while the Valyria post was tagged "song of ice and fire." Hm....

Also worth noting that all of the 5 potential spinoffs are prequels. But that's kind of obvious. Season 1 of the spinoff show will be coming out before ADOS, and any kind of sequel show that takes place in the future will be affected by events in ADOS. George obviously doesn't want anymore ADOS spoilers beyond what we'll get from Season 8. So we're looking at prequels only.I bet he's in the editing stage.Two observations:

1. His current mood is "busy."

2. Comments are disabled.

Ninja edit: I'm having trouble parsing the very last sentence:

> They're all prequels, though, I let that slip already, and several of them are....We are in hell and George is the devilhttp://grrm.livejournal.com/543080.htmlA Dance With Dragons came out 6 years and 5 days ago..... that's what.with a greyjoy sigil ? because of Euron, and all of the shit that might get down at oldtownYeah. Last year he said that he would finish it. He has not. I don't wanna get super-hyped and get disappointed. :/That's a weird way to spell hype, ^but ^probably ^the ^right ^way ^here I doubt it, as to not take the spotlight off GoT.i dont know, the link is not that strong imoI'm half with you, but you also have to admit that ONE of these times, the stupid predictions and reading the cards of prophecy will be correct, and so we have to keep doing it until it happensWait... there are only four seasons in nature, but this is season seven of Game of Thrones.

7-4=3

Half-Life 3 confirmed.which would make sense because he's avoiding it, not denying it, which is a good sign for me, but i get what you say, it's a good point ! :)Honestly I think that's just coincidence. What are the chances that one quote from the Bible metaphorically says the exact thing Martin wants to tell us AND gives a release date as well? Also I don't think he knows the release date yet, he just knows it's in the final phase and "the end is near".One can only hope.I've been saying the same thing.  It's almost definitely just this.It's in TWOIAF, I think he surely saw it before and wouldn't post it now. And he wouldn't disable comments.I don't think you understand what unprofessional means.  Call him a slow writer, sure (and he's admitted that) but speed of writing is not an aspect of professionalism.Yes!  I'm excited for the books, whenever they come out, because it will be a different, arguably better, story than what I'm watching (cuz books > tv).  They can coexist together, and not enough people understand that.I know, but if it was just about Duolingo, he would say it. There's no way he can't see the amout of hype we are creating. Why is he not stopping it if it's not avout Winds? Either because it is about Winds... or he's a cruel cruel man.The prequels are so early in the stages there is absolutely no way they have picked one before they have even been written. No way that's the answer imo. The Asoiaf tag screw the link between the two in my opinion. There is also Linda's comment on Winds news during WorldCon : "Perhaps there is good news about winter winds in Helsinki (GRRM will go to the Worldcon). I don't know. Hopefully"Seven hells, yes! This, precisely.Well I started reading the books just a year ago so I'm a sweet summer child that wants to believe. You don't have to if you don't want to.This would male no sense. The prequel projects are in very very early writing stages so they are a long way off from even beginning to choose one. It seems you are right. He blocked comments on all posts. (Yes you can do that in LJ)
I am guessing he didn't want the additional show only people traffic rather than hyped TWOW traffic we assumed.
He would have made TWOW announcement/update already if the post was related to it. My hype for Twow is dying every passing day :(I tried to start a thread about that but the mods wouldn't let me. And now his mood is "Giggly." He's enjoying himself.There's no way he keeps disabling comments on posts to avoid answer questions on the Valyria/Babylon post. We've got to get some sort of an answer soon. Right? 


Guys?It is about something important, he doesnt deny anything, he just avoids the asking which means hype Ikr, his new post not shedding any light about his previous post is weird, comment's disabled again and mood at busy ! Jesus Christ what the hell
He won't be at SDCCHype to the left of me,
Hype to right,
Here I am,
Stuck in the middle with hype.Once more unto the hype, dear friends, once more;
I see you stand like grey Hounds in the slips,
Straining upon the start. The Game's afoot:
Follow your spirit, and upon this charge
Cry 'Gods for Arry, Westeros, and Saint George!'The book will only come when Hype rises in the West and sets in the East Cannon to right of them,

Cannon to left of them,

Cannon in front of them

 Volley'd and thunder'd;

Storm'd at with shot and shell,

Boldly they rode and well,

Into the jaws of Death,

Into the mouth of HellGRRM will establish a dynasty for a 1000 hype yearsWhats his twitterLinda either knows nothing or it isn't done at all. They got ADwD's draft months ahead of time to help edit it and did not talk about it at all  or drop hints. I  imagine they'd help this time too, so this just  tells me it is still far away or he's cut them out of the loop completely.Isn't that just suggesting though? That perhaps it might happen but she doesn't know?

Let's not get too ahead of ourselves here...In the past, was Linda talking this way when asked news about Winds or ?Winds of Winter: The Newest Chapter of the Wild Cards Series!No it doesn't have to be.  It could easily be nothing again, just like the 12 days of winter and the new years post.I don't see any cryptic messages, but I only went back 7 posts.  He is going to conventions, recommending tv shows and working on a bunch of new pilots for spin offs of GoT. 

Where is the cryptic TWOW message?  His publisher may be limiting how much he can say. In fact, I would be extremely surprised if they *didn't* restrict what he can announce, since they're almost certainly going to want to partner with HBO for any announcement and won't want the cat getting out of the bag before then. His "not being cryptic" promise was years and years ago, and the last time he put out a book in the series was back when nobody knew whether anyone would even care about the show. Well he's not completely done yet. When he is, he will announce it without cryptics.never said anything about nearing the end The Starks haven't changed their words yet so TWOW can't be released. By the way with the \#WinterIsHere promotion of GoT S7, it's just perfect for TWOW as it benefits them too.Can't wait to reread this thread in 2 years and cry bitter tears.I'd say closer to 15 years, but yeah pretty much. When was /r/asoiaf made, anyway?Wouldn't make sense. He didnt even write a single valyrian sentence in his post
There's definitely no way it would release before the end of season 7 since editing, translating to the other major languages, and printing millions of copies will take months even if he sends in his final draft today. He had a post a couple years ago talking about how long it takes from final draft to the book reaching the stores back when he thought he could finish and release the book before season 6 started. 

And once that process does start we'll start to hear about it from the rumor mill. Tough to keep such a major endeavor under wraps. Hard to imagine it coming out sooner than November, even if it were already done.  Too many people have to work on the book to make that happen, it'd be difficult to keep it a secret.  Remember back when they did the prep work for a pre-season 6 publishing, there were all sorts of leaks about translators having their time scheduled and such?  

It'll probably be a 4-6 month lead time between announcement and publishing.  That isn't too long-- most books take a full year at least, but GRRM typically seems to take very little time revising his work once he declares it done, largely because he spends so much time revising it before that point.It takes at least 3 months to release the book after finishing writing. Since we assume GRRM is now finishing the book, we have 3-4 months till its published at least. Imo it will come with this winter... cause Winter Is Coming!I was so excited for the 12 days, I was sure the announcement was coming. I don't think I was convinced that it was happening on the new years post, but the live threads on this sub were super fun, which made up for it.Watch it be just like New Year's but only way, way worse.

>Sometimes I hate my computer.

>I've been working for six years on a new book, a long long long book about winter coming, and all the things that happened in it, the good and the bad. 

>I know, I know. I should have broken it up. Made it three books, or four.

>But I didn't, and somehow I lost it.I would prefer his valyria post being about ''the end is near for winds (or your waiting is nearing its end) than a spin offIs it there yet?I want to believeAlthough I am a skeptic that Winds is coming any time soon, I suspect this is a possibility. Do we know when that would be?What's the website for his new blog going to be? The only place I've heard about it is on this subreddit. Did he talk about it recently? I'm out of the loop on this. When is he supposed to start using the new blog?So you think we will get the new blog plus Winds of Winter announcement at the same time ? Damn !
I like that. Hope you're right.I mean...understandable. GRRM has obviously written reams and reams of notes about the history of his world, but probably only vague notes about the future. Way more material to draw from.He's probably been there for a year or two. Both him and Patrick Rothfuss are revision-heavy writers, and the latter has talked about how much more time he spends rewriting, tweaking, editing, tightening, and otherwise polishing his writing compared to actually writing it in the first place.

Frustrating to as a fan due to the time delay, but it's hard to argue the end result isn't enormously worthwhile.My thoughts exactly, I think he is at the "sweetening phase" or whatever he calls it.He's been working extremely hard on a Wild Card prequel.He just made another Post.
Mood is Giggly!Given that the previous sentence is 

> I'd love to tell you all about them, but then I'd have to kill you. 

I think he's making a joke that HBO would kill him if he shared any other details.>and several of them are....
Current Location:Santa Fe

it says right there, several of them are going to be set in santa feAbout Targaryens... set in pre-doom Valyria?Several of them are what?"You are in hell book fan. (Slaps face with dick) And I...am the devil."NO MAMA YOU'RE THE DEVIL!!!!Haha Nah asoiaf doesnt have the "berserk" level of wait still.He's not the devil, he's practice. The devil went down to Reddit, and he was lookin' for some hope to steal... No, we are in heaven and George is god. And god is preparing winds for us. Most likely. The devil doesn't like winds, he likes fire. seems a little to far fetched sadley...

Even if we get TwOw, i dont think we will ever see the AdoS. And i really doubt he can finish the story in 2 books...Yeahhhhhh I know :(> but you also have to admit that ONE of these times, the stupid predictions and reading the cards of prophecy will be correct

Well, actually...That's a bit of a stretch... i think the real truth is that George types with two hands... wait, but there are 5 fingers on each hand! 5-2=3 OMG ITS CONFIRMED!Well, it's not a coincidence if he chose the quote specifically for that purpose, lol. But all we can do is wait and see!> What are the chances that one quote from the Bible metaphorically says the exact thing _____ wants to tell us

You clearly haven't been around enough people who quote the Bible!He posts pictures from old stuff all the time and he disables comments from  time to time,  especially when GoT is out because he doesn't want  to deal with all the questions.
   
I've  been there, analyzing and hoping his posts mean TWoW is coming, but  time and time again I've had my hopes dashed.  He said multiple times he wouldn't tease us or dangle hints  or anything.. when he is done he'll post it to his blog. One day we'll all be in misery thinking it will never get here  and the next he'll announce it with Son of Kong. There's no point getting yourself all excited that it is any closer than it was a year ago based off his posts There  is only one post to look for.> speed of writing is not an aspect of professionalism

Heartily disagree. Speed of doing things is an aspect of professionalism in almost every profession. If you are a baker and make only one bread per day and take the rest of the day off, wouldn't you call yourself just a little bit unprofessional?No he is definitely unprofessional. > Why is he not stopping it if it's not avout Winds? Either because it is about Winds... or he's a cruel cruel man.

I feel like Martin is way, way less plugged into the day-to-day activities and concerns of his fandom than you think he is.True, but GRRM is involved in their production, he is probably particularly excited about the prospects of creating one in Old Valyria. I'll admit that doesn't explain the Greyjoy sigil and surely they aren't making a spin-off totally around the Greyjoys, but I still think it's the most realistic and likely explanation. I am not saying your wrong, but what tag would he use then? I don't think he could use the 'game of thrones' tag like he normally does because technically this new story wouldn't be the game of thrones. It's clear from his mood that he wants to be cryptic, so he couldn't straight up put an hbo tag on it. 

I suppose technically a new story wouldn't be a part of the "song of ice and fire" either but his universe isn't really known by any other name. But Linda's reply is also what my reply would be, and I have no idea what GRRM's intentions areThat means you weren't even here for the 12 Nights of Winter. Or the countdowns to season 6. Or the Long Night.

You know nothing.Don't get mad at those of us who have seen this same cycle for decades and try to tell you the way it is. You'll know it's getting sent off to the publishers when you see a picture of Son of Kong on NotaBlog; there will be no other hints.He has also said time and time again that he wouldn't pull any bullshit when TWOW was complete and he'd just fucking tell us. No idea why everyone was getting hyped over something that probably pertained to the show that premiered four days later. Oh, and he's a super famous author that runs a theater and attends cons all around the world. Almost half his status updates say he's busy, because he is! Just not necessarily with writing. He's reveling in our despair and uncertainty as he watches us scramble to decipher what all this means.

I think 12 days taught him a lot about how to fuck with us.Sorry, I'm behind on the queue ;___;Or he's just going to keep ignoring it until people stop pestering him. My thoughts exactly.

RIP Rafael De La GhettoThough that's because that's the amount of time that will pass between TWOW and ADOS release dates. When you sign something with a bird, it's called a tweet.So why would she even hint at it .ayne being good news if she definitely knew it wouldn't be?just thought it was interesting and was relevant thats all.I didn't see the stream so I don't know for sure if that was what she was asked, but I think that it implies it.I know it could. But you have to admit it also could be Winds.He posted some artwork from one of his side books he liked with a modified bible quote that sounds cool and people are assuming it's some cryptic message rather than nothing again like always. The only slightly suspicious thing about any of this is that his last 3 entries have had comments disabled, but probably he just got tired of responding to fans off topic questions or thinks reading the comments takes up too much time and decided to do that from now on.Nah, his publishers wants the books as bad as we do. They would be more than happy to announce immediately when the books would be ready. They don't need to partner with HBO for any release.Just think, even if it does come out this year, the wait for ADOS will begin and if it's 6 more years that will be tantalizing. OMG, that hit close to home. I have seen some of the archived post before Dance and people were hoping it would come sooner and then there were those posts from 2012-13(?) suggesting Winds will be released in a couple of months. Even the most pessimistic posts mentioned that it would come in 2017. I guess we are still in for a long wait.He has been saying "Two more books, next one Real Soon Now" since 1998.This is it for me. The follow up to Storm of Swords still isn't really finished. It just keeps getting split and carved up.Saturday July 18, 2009 (8 years tomorrow)And he didn't supply a link to it. 

And why disable the comments if it was about that?Ahh but in the southern hemisphere its winter nooow :(Ahhhhhhhhhhh please dont be wrong owGod I hope he's typing it on something cloud based.Then the next day he drops the book, haha right guys? r-right? I think this whole subreddit stands in agreement with you.. But life is better when one doesn't read into these things too much. The batting average is markedly low as we all know too well. 

This is *nothing* compared to 12 Days of Westeros ... I mean I would have bet anything that was the end of the wait.No idea what the new blog will be. His twitter bio says that new blog format coming soon. He wants to leave livejournal for some reason. I think it has something to do with livejournal's Russian owners and the new terms of service. The users should comply to Russian laws or something. I'm not really in the loop on this either.I don't know. His twitter bio says "New blog format coming soon! Till then... http://grrm.livejournal.com" and it's been there for few weeks.Just in time for preseason NFL...Patrick Rothfuss seems to mostly play really obscure PC games at like 3 am these days. Wouldn't surprise me that instead of the revision phase, it's a final copy-editing for typos.  He talked a lot about this phase with Dragons.I'd love to read TWOW as it was before season 6 and in its final state and be the judge of that myself. Personally I think there's HBO money keeping that book off the shelves.SweatingI'm so confused.It's good news that he's home, it means he's writing. Breaking Baratheongot 'emThere you go.  If you go to the front page and read them in reverse order, i.e., the June 17th post and then the June 12th post, it reads like some of the prequels are in Valyria....secretly Wild Cards novels.By following my Madlib rule, they are penis.He was in a bind because he was WAY behind and he was looking to make us squeal*some hype to steal*. The devil likes wind because it fans the fire. Weren't you the one saying we would know what the post is about Saturday or sunday or monday ?
Ok well we have to keep doing it until it either happens or GRRM is confirmed dead.

Since neither of those 2 things have happened, my point stands. Yes, but I mean what if 18:10 would be a random sentence like "And then he went shopping" (not really from the Bible but whatever), that wouldn't fit anything. He chose the quote because it means "the end is near" (or at least that's my assumption), the fact that it could be a potential release date is probably just a coincidence. One of these times, the predictions and speculation will be correct. Just once, with many false hopes and crushed dreams before it, but it will happen and the naysayers will be shamed when it does.Okay but why. I'm not seeing the link here.Maybe, but people asked about that post on his blog and his response was disabling the comments.Why lock the comments? Awoiaf True, but Linda and Elio are going to be proofreading his manuscript before it's published, we're not. They're his friends and confidants, not us, They have co-written asoiaf material with him, we haven't.

If anyone knows anything about a release date, it's Linda, Elio, or Anne Groell. Hey you're like the arch maester from the latest GoT episode!What is this Son of Kong meme I keep seeing around here?That's not necessarily true.  Back during the Feast and Dance days he used to give irregular updates about page count and progress.  By the time Dance was finished we'd known for a while that the book was close to done.  Now, he intentionally decided not to do that for Winds to avoid giving false hope, but that's the thing: we can't really draw conclusions about what hints he will or won't give, because he was never this secretive about past books in the first place.

Also, he told fans at a convention that Feast was "finished" and was going to be split before updating his website.  Dance had an official release date from the publisher, confirmed as 100% fixed and correct by GRRM, more than a month before the Kong post.  We definitely could get concrete information before he does an official "It's finished" blog post.This is precicely the type of comment that makes this sub more or less read only for me...if you're wrong you're wrong, if you're right then congrats!  But you're still an arse.  But, hey, either way you get to brood at least!I'm not mad at all, I totally understand you. You believed, you got disappointed, you are careful with believing again. But I'm a sweet summer child that didn't get this lesson yet. So I'm hyped.

PS: It may sound like it, but I'm really not sarcastic.Yeah, I'm usually among the first to be all, "Quit reading things into his statements/ posts! He doesn't mean anything with it."

This time, though? No, he's clearly fucking with us.Ah, looks like it's up. I guess there was a lot of show stuff to sort through.That is sort of my current theory. https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6n9tix/spoilers_extended_twow_and_the_mysterious_blog/dk9p74e/?context=3&st=j596ayk9&sh=3094680e

>From a damage control perspective, if all this involves something minor and GRRM didn't expect such a sense of hype to build, it would be better to just never follow-up on it and let it die a slow death than admit you made a mistake and make people more angry.Just wait, tomorrow there will be a blog post about Wild Cards with comments not only allowed but thoroughly encouraged. Excuse me sir, but thats Raphael de la Ghetto to you.
The clock ist ticking for you....Because all she wants is attention. She's an attention whore that imo should be no where near ASOIAF. I like to call her a leech but that would be to nice.Not necessarily towards you, I meant more like how Bfish on Twitter is basically issuing it as confirmation hahaohhh another post on his blog, again no info but his mood is giggly, it's about real life inspiration for the dothraki and comments disabled. He clearly knows we are suspecting somethingIt would be stupid not to partner with HBO for the book release. Do you have any idea how many more people just watch the show vs read the books? If they could bring just a fraction of that audience over it would be huge.Last night at my premiere party, one of my friends said "I heard he was writing both the books at the same time, and he'll release them all at once!" I took it a little too personally...In 2014 I was convinced it would be out that year, my most pessimistic guess was early 2016

Yeah...should we maybe get them a cake or something? He had physical printed backups and I believe digital ones as well.  Unless his house burns down and all the backups are onsite, which would be stupid, that's not possible.i dont think his computer can connect to the internet friendoOh yeah no doubt, i know this subreddit pretty much think the same thing lol ! :)ya it has to do with Muslim and Russian owners of live journal and he wants nothing to do with the image of those 2 sets of ideaslive journal is enforcing russia's anti-lgbtq lawsMy understanding is that he is currently taking a mental health break. Which...honestly, good on him. I wish I could take one of those sometimes.The one time I saw him on twitch at 3am, it was the Witcher 3...Tbf he's much younger than GRRM. I have absolute trust that I will see the end of KKC by the time I graduate college in two years. RemindMe!~2years. Did I do that right? 

Edit: I guess I did do that right lol.Just wondering, about how long does it take to make the final edits? I think I remember his editor or someone saying it could be done in a week.We're I him, I'd keep it off the shelf too. Off the shelf, and with an entirely different ending.The books coming out would have no effect on viewership of the show. Anyone who is a book reader is going to watch the show regardless if they have read the book.I don't think so.  AFFC and ADWD weren't much more timely.That :)He's on acid againfeaturing Walter White WalkerA friends style spinoff set in Valyria plsjulyFinally! /s. George was in a bind, he was way behind, and he was willing to make a deal.   
When he came upon /r/asoiaf throwing down theories smokin' hot,  
 he jumped up on his not a blog and this is what we got. 

I guess you didn't know it. 
But valyrias hour has come. 
My mood is enigmatic. 
And comments? I won't have it!  
So this is what will be done.  
You fans are pretty good  
At theories that is true  
I'll bet a release date  
Against your soul   
Cause I think I'm better than you.  

The sub said "our name is hype 
And it might be a sin 
But I'll take your bet and you're gonna regret  
Cause were the best there's ever been!"  

Subreddit rosin up your tinfoil and type your theories hard  
Cause hells broke loose in /r/asoiaf and Georgie  deals the cards  
And if you win you'll get a date for the book you've prayed for hard,  
But If you lose I'll hold you down and make you read wild cards!  
  
  
And they wrote gravedigger hound and dothraki soup,   
Daario is benjen and Euron too,  
Everyone's a targ except for Daenerys,  
Brienne was originally to be pretty merris.  

George bowed his head because he knew that hed been beat, and gave the fans an entire book about dripping grease and smoked meat. 
But he hates winter Yeah and the mods got mad at me so I quit, admittedly not my best moment. He has been published on the pretense that the series he began he would finish.  Rather than finish his project he has started other projects.  This is unprofessional.  Fair enough. The way he moderates his comments baffles me in general. He's always complaining about people being off topic, despite the fact that LJ allows you to moderate comments before they're posted. Who knows.Is it terribly unusual for him to lock comments? Just a few days before he locked the comments on a post discussing the German edition of A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms. There is not a lot of consistency on which posts he locks the comments for and which he doesn't, so I wouldn't count that as compelling evidence. George calls TWOW Son of Kong. He called ADWD Kong because it became such a huge book, a "monster" if you will. TWOW became something similar.Probably takes him a month to type up a post saying he's finished...rewrites and stuff ya knowWhat a refreshingly mature attitude. I am you in a couple years. Enjoy it while it lasts, I was sad to move on. I used to come here daily!Well here is something to think about.... if he really did think he was close to being done or actually done he'd have  announced it so the marketing would  come out when S7 premiered in order to get everyone preordering with the hype of the show. The fact that there wasn't an announcement means, in my eyes, that he isn't sure he is within 6 months of being  done.I agree. I think he was just having a little fun, and as usual underestimated exactly how starved for information the fan base is. Click, clock, tock.He never said it was a confirmation. He merely retweeted it and said "if it's true I will laugh and laugh and be even worse and if it's not true I will laugh and laugh and be even worse"hahaha so much for him being the hype slayer.Come on George don't just be trolling us.It's already the current most anticipated book in existence. He's not going to need additional help from HBO for the announcement. It could be a two word post that just said "TWOW done" and the internet and news media would take care of hyping up the book. For example, it's guaranteed to be one of the highest upvoted posts on reddit when he does announce it. It's getting up there with Half-life 3 in mythical entertainment properties that will seemingly never be released. HBO might help a tiny bit but the majority of the western world will know with or without them being involved. What would partnering with HBO do for them? They already will have all the publicity associated with the show working for them as soon as they announce. A) I'm not saying they wouldn't partner with HBO, I'm saying they don't need to. One has to take into account what sort of deal HBO and the publishers would be interested in, I doubt the publishers or Martin would want to share book sales with them.

B) Even if such a partnership was in the works that wouldn't stop the publishers from announcing that TWOW would soon be coming. After all, they'd want to drum up hype.[George says no...] (http://grrm.livejournal.com/542263.html?thread=26259255#t26259255) Here, so you can slap them with this link.That would be the greatest twist of them all. Everyone gets annoyed at him for being slow for years and then BOOM, extra book out of nowhere.How about a nice bookI think that'd be appropriate.Well I hope he routinely backs it up to an exterior hard drive, or two.The great GRRM supports the rainbow guard!I will be messaging you on [**2019-07-18 02:57:20 UTC**](http://www.wolframalpha.com/input/?i=2019-07-18 02:57:20 UTC To Local Time) to remind you of [**this link.**](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nun2k/spoilers_extended_grrm_posts_another_post_to_his/dkd4bul)

[**CLICK THIS LINK**](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nun2k/spoilers_extended_grrm_posts_another_post_to_his/dkd4bul]%0A%0ARemindMe! ~2years. Did I do that right? ) to send a PM to also be reminded and to reduce spam.

^(Parent commenter can ) [^(delete this message to hide from others.)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Delete Comment&message=Delete! dkd4cta)

_____

|[^(FAQs)](http://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/24duzp/remindmebot_info/)|[^(Custom)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=Reminder&message=[LINK INSIDE SQUARE BRACKETS else default to FAQs]%0A%0ANOTE: Don't forget to add the time options after the command.%0A%0ARemindMe!)|[^(Your Reminders)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBot&subject=List Of Reminders&message=MyReminders!)|[^(Feedback)](http://np.reddit.com/message/compose/?to=RemindMeBotWrangler&subject=Feedback)|[^(Code)](https://github.com/SIlver--/remindmebot-reddit)|[^(Browser Extensions)](https://np.reddit.com/r/RemindMeBot/comments/4kldad/remindmebot_extensions/)
|-|-|-|-|-|-|That's not true. I stopped watching the show when they went past the book.Big difference lolWalter of House Wight; his words: "I am the danger".
White WaltersJust simply amazing. We need someone to put this to video and send it to our lord and master GRRM Guitar Hero 3, final boss: George R.R. Martin.> And if you win you'll get a date for the book you've prayed for hard,

> But If you lose I'll hold you down and make you read wild cards!

Fucking dead lmao*violin solo*I'd give you a gold dragon if reddit let you transfer them. "The Devil went down to George RR"That was way more awesome than it deserved to be. Bravo OP, Bravo!This is amazing. It needs a 2017 award!Braavos Ser Braavos The devil hates sand (snakes). They're rough and coarse and they get everywhere and talk about the "bad pussy". For some reason I feel like we are really getting an announcement of Winds soon. I have been tricked so many times before though. If the people of this sub have to be coddled to the point where someone can't even make an obvious joke like that we are in trouble. It sounds to me that you're simply impatient and not understanding. ¯\_(ツ)_/¯ Ah okay thank you.I used to have notifications sent to my phone whenever GRRM tweeted something in the hopes it'd be a TWOW announcement for most of 2015....

I am but a shell of that sweet summer child now.I'm not sure he needs show hype to push TWoW. Everyone who has read up to ADwD and is still alive will buy the book.I think he will troll us until the very last second.

Pent up anger for years of fans asking if TWoW is coming out soon.And then in two weeks its over, everyone's read them all and there is nothing left but void and Wild CardsFloppy disks bud.Just a couple letters :PSigil: Glasses above a field of crystal blueFiddle* soloMy humble thanks. I would have spent more time but I wrote it on my phone walking to my car after work. Even worse than that is the bad poosyI think we are too. I really do. Honestly I was so let down by the show last night, it made me sort of sick. I know that sounds dramatic. And it is. But I was so let down, I feel like the ending is so lackluster. What's being set up and everything. The book is so deep. I don't mean just details. So deep! Ideas of ice and fire on YouTube, that dude has me hyped for a lot of book story. He puts it into perspective. Sooo many things to dwell on. The show just has that feeling of two showrunners who are rushing to the ending because they're over it now. And it shows. So lame.
I bet grrm sees how bad it is too. That would usher him to get the book out to us I bet :) he would never admit it's bad because he's obligated to praise the show but yeah. I sort of went on quite a bit for days saying I'm from the future though, so I get why. I was just trying to add some humor to the sorrow. Not hating on the mods here by any means You are probably rightAnd a whole lotta connotation ;) A song of Ice. I knew i shouldn't have played wind instruments back in schoolWow. If you wrote this on you phone en route to your car, I can't imagine what you'd write if you sat down and really got into it. Good work Cael 👍humblebrag much xDHow friggin' far away is your car? CudosI can barely walk and hold my phone at the same timeI really do think that it'll be at Worldcon, in a similar manner to how AFFC was announced Any time they stray from the books the show suffers. The dialogue just seems off. And FirepowerI guess it does sound like that now that I reread it lol. Pretty far. About a 6 minute walk. I think we’ll hear before then, or at least we’ll find out what the Valyria post was about before then. Worldcon is almost a month away—is he really going to stay secretive and keep comments turned off on Not A Blog for that long? Everything going on now seems a bit too early for Worldcon.Last year, on his notablog grrm made a post about going to worldcon.

I made a comment on his blog and said "are you going to make a surprise announcement???" Was sort of joking, sort of nudging.

He replied "oh please, stop with that nonsense"

I highly doubt he will announce something at the world con. It'll be on his blog. 

If he announces it at world con, he'll be ambushed to to hell by media The dialogue between Cersei and Jaime was downright cringe to me. Felt so out of place. The Euron dialogue makes me want to pull a Tommen every time he opens his mouth.Yep. They tried to add stuff from the early books last night as a little nod. Everything now feels like fan service and I hate that. I wish they would tell the story without letting fans theories or opinions get involved. This is why I love grrm. He firmly believes that and that's why he quit writing for television in the 90's and started this series. Which ironically turned into a tv series that caters to fan service.

The hands of gold Song irritated me. I wasn't like "ooh a cool book reference!" I was like "why couldn't they just be cool and add implement certain things the way they should have been?" 
I don't buy the whole time constraint thing. There are ways they could have tightened the story up even further but making it more true to the books and also as eerie as the books. Such a shame. He is because The Winds of Winter is not done >stop with  that nonsense. 

god this guy really makes it seem like theres something wrong with being a fan of his work and wanting to know about progress. 

is it really nonsense that we should  care or expect it to ever come out?

im a fan of his work but i really don't like the dude.
We'll see, we'll see Some of the worst ever. Which is why I was so surprised by the Hound scenes. Like, enough so that it made me curious about who exactly was writing which bits of the episode?> He firmly believes that and that's why he quit writing for television in the 90's and started this series. Which ironically turned into a tv series that caters to fan service.

GRRM strikes me as wily as fuck, he knows the industry and how it works. It is vicious and deadly. He is way too clever to ever really get in trouble with HBO and the mammoth industry behind the show now. 

But it has always also seemed to me that he gets in his sly digs now and then, for anyone who looks closely enough to see. I suspect that is all that will happen until he is able to get his own story out there and perhaps speak his mind. I choose to believe, like the pathetic summerchild that I am deep down lol, that his personal feelings about the show, and how it has made him rich, are both motivating for completion of the books, and bittersweet all at once. Kinda appropriate maybe.Yeah man. I love GRRM as  writer and am grateful for the amazing work he has made, but as a person he can kinda be a prick. That's not how I took it. It's more that there's no time for conspiracy theories about the release date. I hope he's okay with it all though. If you look at his interviews when the show first started, he was really excited and really full of life and had a lot of fun in interviews. 
Very recently, he hasn't looked too good, and seems depressed. Makes me sad. I bet he knows it deep down, but I truly do hope he does know that his story is the real story and that his telling of the story is 100 times better than the way d&d took it, no comparison Arya gets caught by Cersei :/Ed Sheeran becomes KingEuron's fleet gets completelly fucked by Dany's Dragoms. 


Sam stays in the OldTown till the end doing nothing


Jamie kills cersei out of jealousy, not because he thinks she's insane. It was all a dream in Bran's coma.Fade to black mid scene sopranos style. danny looked at the white walker and be like "fuck this. i'm going back to the east. GG"Baelish bends the knee, fights the Walkers and dies a hero. As he gives his life to save Jon and Sansa he says "Can I say one last clever thing?" before meeting his demise. 
Bran wakes up in Winterfell. It was all a dream. Ned says no to King Bob asking him to be hand of the king.Daenerys is knocked unconscious and wakes up back in Essos, surrounded by hostile Dothraki.Dany deciding Dragonstone's throne suits her just fine. A+++ for all the dragon decor. No need to ever leave or accept any visitors. The White Walkers reach the Wall...and can't penetrate the defenses.

Night King shrugs his shoulders, turns 180 degrees, and goes back into the wild.White Walkers are easily defeated by Dany and her dragons. Then everyone lives in peace and harmony, the end. The wight giant dies offscreen because the CGI is too expensive.

Euron sinks Dany's fleet so the Dothraki never make it to Westeros.
My biggest fear for the show right now is that the Night King and the White Walkers will turn out to be unquestionable "bad guys".

We know that men screwed over the Children of the Forest and that the CotF created the Night King. Is that all the backstory we'll get on them? Will they continue to just be evil magic ice demons, or are we going to get some nuance?
More shots of the army of the dead just walking in the snow, never reaching the wall or any other destination- they just continue walking in the snow. Ed Sheeran ends up killing Robert Strong. Winter ends abrubtly after only one snowfall hitting Kings Landing. Cersei slips on a puddle of melting ice and breaks her neck. The white walkers melt and everybody enjoys a lovely spring of peace and prosperity.While riding through the Haunted Forest, looking for White Walkers, Thoros of Myr's topknot gets stuck in some branches and it snaps his neck.Daenerys says "Let's begin" and Tyrion, in a clumsy step forward, hits his head against the table and dies. 30 seconds of camera time follows as Daenerys watches Tyrion's dead body just laying there with open eyes and blood gushing out his head. Jon never sees Arya or Bran once they return to Winterfell because Jon won't be there.Dany's arrival in Dragonstone ahead of her soldiers causes a squatter to fatally stab her in a moment of panic.Cleganebowl! 

Two estranged brothers settling their differences in Flea Bottom over a bowl of Brown.Arya killing Jaime to kill Cersei while wearing Jaimes faceNothing happens at Oldtown other than Sam finding the stupid dragon glass info book and dagger. Jon and Daenerys team up and "defeat winter" but Jon dies doing so. Birds tweet and stuff. Some bad guys die, some sail off. Someone, anyone has a baby and we care or something. Because life springs anew.Jorah won't get no closure. He's going to get cured so somehow, not sure how. But mark my words. I just feel it. They wouldn't hint toward it otherwise. Things have to move the story forward. Why waste screen time on him if it doesn't move the story forward. There is something else to it > Jorah quietly dies in the citadel with no closure whatsoever.
  
Jorah is overall anti-climactic. That would not be out of place imo. A respectfully negotiated armistice between the human kingdoms in the second episode, and the next five being debate over the tax code. In this scenario the Night King gets to the wall, still can't get over, and sullenly marches back to his hole.Wight Hodor kills Meera or BranAll the good guys teaming up and defeating the bad guys.Jaime being more or less fine with what Cersei has become
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*The Night's King is cold and he needs an army to get to Dorne so he can be warm.Didn't the white walkers already kill the rest of the Children? Hasn't that already gone "full Frankenstein " enough? Or do you need Ian Malcolm to say "Ice, uh... *finds a way*"?They just get lost in a snowstorm they are causing themselves.https://i.makeagif.com/media/4-23-2015/on3LXY.gifThey are doing all the side quests first. I was just thinking it's a good bet the Night King doesn't own a fucking map, that's for sure.With a slingshot.Heh. I was wondering, how great would it have been if some thugs were hiding in Dragonstone, only to shoot Dany with an arrow the second she set foot on the beach?...the table slips from its base, sending a shock that brings the entire room crashing down. Tyrion, Danaerys, and Jon Snow are all killed. A fight breaks out between factions; everyone dies; the secret of dragon glass is lost again. Night King marries zombie Cersei.Not even George could anticipate that.Oh shit... Jon should be gone to the Wall later in the season if we are to trust trailers. If Bran doesn't get to meet him it's one thing, but if Arya doesn't... That's actually would be really sad.I was saying in another post that it would have been genius if Cersei had the castle booby trapped with wildfire ahead of Dany's return. And a fierce game of Cyvasse.Please. Just please don't give them any ideas. Arya kills Cersei and takes her face, then Jaime kills Cersei, but it's actually Arya.it would easy as a pie for arya to do that - better yet, kill cersei and wear her faceI bet the last scene is a guy signing a song about it 200 years later to indifferent preteen kids. And they don't believe it happened. Cut scene to a new night king emerging from the snow and the story repeats itself all over again. Pretty much how I saw it all ending. Complete with  winter ending summer starting a new string of sweet summer childrenI think he must have some pretty cool information from his travels-don't think he will be cured though. I am a little excited to see what Jorah brings to this season.\*grayscale-covered hand bursts violently from hole in door*

"Oh hey, I was just wondering if you heard about any news from Meereen or whatever. If not, it's cool."

Well-done jump scare, but ultimately kind of dumb.The Watch just pushes the wall over on him.WW are not going to be paying the extreme and unjust taxes the southerners will levy on them. No, they send him the bill for the destruction of crown property and the theft of KW materials and bodies, charge him with improper disposal of the wight's bodies, and attempt to levy a fine of 30 million golden dragons.

He decides the South is more trouble than it is worth, and comes to a negotiated settlement equal to the total amount of the crown's external debts.

Westeros is saved, and the economy put back on sound footing."Oh fuck I forgot about the wall. Dammit, back to sleep for another 5000 years I guess.""On second thought, let's not go south, tis a silly place!"I'm not ready for undead hodor :(There *were* three giants in the Night King's march, after all.I want to see Jon and the hound piss all over winter. As opposed to all the good guys fighting each other and losing to the bad guys?  Come on, it **is** entertainment after all.Or Jamie Murdering his Sister. Allowing Daney to Simply walk back into town.

On the plus side this would set up the reunification of the 7 kingdoms in time to deal with the dangers in the north. But... that would be too convenient. *disapproving look*Good work, AutoModerator."Hey NK, should would just march on the wall now?"

"Just hang on.  I only need to collect 23 more unique items North of the Wall to get this achievement to pop. If I don't get it now I'll have to wait until the next Long Night to try to get it, and frankly, I'm probably gonna be pretty burnt out after I get done with this run, and probably won't get back to even starting another Long Night for several thousand years."lots of fishingAnd you just know he's too stubborn to ask for directions.No no, with a song!wtfShe could be in king's landing preparing for the whole stabby Cersei thing and she over hears someone talking about how the bastard of the traitor Stark is meeting someone on Dragonstone and she goes there.When they spent so much time showing Dany walking around I honestly thought that is what was going to happen and I started to get very upset about it. Never been happier to see credits roll.Please, no more Cyvasse in TWOWBut a younger version of Cersei, so she's overthrown by a younger, pretty queenKill Cersei and wear her face, but issue progressively more insane commands and see how long it takes anyone to say anythingEd Sheeran is the singing manNo no no, over the last season they will have a song that's played throughout the season by the characters. 

And then in the epilogue we see 5000 years into the future at a place that looks like modern NYC with Littlefinger and Varys, meanwhile a modern rendition of said song is playing in the background. 

Okay, maybe I'm still a bit salty about that finale.Damn-nice one. Awful stuff. I'm going to piggyback: one character is still alive and we see them going about daily business. Same age as 200yrs before. Tyrion? Arya?Well the last book is called "A Dream of Spring", and was originally called "A Time for Wolves". There's clearly going to be some form of triumph and hope at the end there. He will make Sam the middle man between Dany and Jon so they can work together. I guess the point of it was to show how far Jorah's greyscale has progressed, when we last saw him in seriws 6 it just looked like bad eczema but now it looks like really bad eczema idk Hi buddy! Do you want greyscale? Here, have some of mine!...aand by doing so NK cripples the Wight economy with massive debt."I thought this would be melted by now... wait fuck, I bring the cold huh""I sleep now!"In ASOIAF, there aren't good guys and bad guys, just humans struggling through life and many different shades of grey. Unfortunately that kind of stuff is way beyond D&D's ken, so good guvs vs. bad guys it is.How about all the good guys fight each other, a ton get killed, they're all exhausted and then the bad guys show up but the good guys win anyway because this is Fantasy?He's become the damn John McCain of Westeros.

'This blatant tyranny is *extremely concerning* to me.'*vague befuddlement*This is what he get for having a brain-dead army, literally.> Kill Cersei and wear her face,

... only to be poisoned by Sansa.Wait, which season did this happen in?MelI think both of those titles allude to being in the depths of a winter. Ew. That would be pretty bland....ensuring another major war a generation later as  his successor rises to power blaming the Wight Giants for all the problems of the Lands of Always Winter.  It only ends when an aged Tyrion builds the Westerosi equivalent of a nuclear weapon,  which disperses aerosolized dragon glass from the back of a dragon.Thanks ObamaRight, because violating guest rights and slaughtering your king is just a shade of grey.there are no good guys, but there are definitely pure bad guys. The Mountain, The Bitter, Ramsay, Vargo  - have no redeeming qualities about them, no shades of gray, just different shades of black.eehh, works for me

i only ask for a big happy wedding for the 2 protagonists at the end, i'm talking about arya and jon of course ;)Don't put that hatred on my boy.Well, they were both taken as prisoners of war so it's fitting. I think it happened when Arya stole Littlefinger's jetpack.You mean breaking 'guest right' against an oath breaking warmonger who wants you to go pillage the west so the original warmonger who you called king doesn't kill your whole family? Doesn't respect you enough to honor promises to you, but definitely expects you to fight and die for him. Especially when on his way back home leaving you alone with the Lannister army. You sure you can't see a single shade of grey there? Because if not, you and me read books very differently.

And if you really want to simplify the book to read Walder as just another 'bad guy', the whole family wasn't a monolith of card carrying evil doers. In the books.

(And if you can save your Robb defense story. I know there are many good defenses of Robb's actions. But the idea that the Frey's are all just mustache twirling villains is just wrong. The different perspectives are what makes it interesting to me. Unless you're talking about the show, of course.)

I do agree with your stated premise though. Game of Thrones IS entertainment. I'm glad you enjoy it. But ASOIAF WAS/IS deep, challenging. and artistically engaging as well, and some of us miss that.https://youtu.be/fneEgwYhiks?t=22slol! Best not to argue with them. just keep telling them it wasn't Wun Wun. Problem solved.

People come up with weird shit lol. I was reading in another sub how people thought because you could see (arya)Walder Frey's hand that meant arya was wearing his hand. no people its just like a magic thing where they take the persons face and their whole body transforms. it doesn't make sense for it to be Wun Wun or Mag the Mighty since both died in a place that Jon Snow would have definitely burned them, let alone allow them to go north of the wall. the only logical explanation is that it's a random giant. It is insanely annoying that they would give the giant one eye though, which is iconic of the only giant that the viewers have a connection toNeil fingleton was listed in the cast despite being dead so it was probably mag the mighty. It wasn't Wun Wun.'Cause all giants look the same, right? Racist. ^/sSomeone said it was mag the mighty. Even though they probably burned himThe eye that remains intact in the reanimated giant is the eye Wun Wun got shot in. Giving the showrunners the benefit of the doubt that is *consistency*, it's not our dear giant. 

I do not think it's Wun Wun.

There are several things that make this a problem - he would have to be taken from Winterfell to the Wall then beyond the Wall to the North, plus his body would be filled with a hundred arrows from the Battle of the Bastards.

Like the other giants seen, this is just a giant that was either killed by the White Walkers or simply resurrected from an ancient burial to fight for them.Who implied this?  Giants have lived and died beyond the wall since its creation, could be any number of dead giants.Don't think it's Wun Wun, as he died south on the Wall. It's probably his cousin Win Win.This makes sense The only way I could see it is that I'm assuming that the vision took place north of the wall when really we have no idea if that's true or not. If the vision took place south of the wall it's more likely but I'm still convinced his body was burned and that it's not a point that would have been overlooked I agree - I don't think it's him, it makes NO SENSE but this is what seems to be going around and I wanted to see if anyone had an explanation that would convince me otherwise. Seriously, there were like three different giants in that shot alone. Or Moon Boy for all I know.Ive been trying to convince people the same thing but since they zoomed in on this giant specifically, it seems that the general population are convinced that it's wun wun. They're claiming when they zoomed in it shows he only had one eye and that's supposedly the hint that it's him. There have been a few random posts popping up about "things you may have missed" and this has been one of the featured points. 
Makes no sense to meOr Wun Twu. But seriously, I was thinking it was the giants that died at the wall..Mag Mar Tun Doh Weg and..I did read someone on Twitter suggesting that this could be a vision of the future and therefore it could be Wun Wun, but Jon told Stannis to burn the Wildings in S4, Episode 10 so I would assume he would burn bodies of the dead after S6, Episode 9!All wun wun Lmao!His names wun wun not wun eye 😂> it seems that the general population are convinced that it's wun wun.

No, not true. Stop drawing conclusions from Reddit and online. 

> zoomed in it shows he only had one eye and that's supposedly the hint that it's him. T

Wun Wun got shot in his right eye, so again wrong.Even if he had one eye it was the right eye that was shot and the wight Giant clearly has his right eye still.or phive sicksNo it's wun wun, and his sister two two, and brother three threeI agree with you. I animatedly disagree that it's him. I've seen so many post claiming it is that I wanted to see if there was any actual backbone to the claimStarfall. Dragonstone was awesome!I wanted to see shadow tower and the nightfort as well as eastwatchHighgarden looks like it's straight out of Disney World.Last night I payed attention to the image of Highgarden on Cersei's Map. It looked a lot like the Tde Nasmith illustration!Wouldn't the Faceless men hate the Night King? I mean don't they commit the ultimate sin by desecrating the dead and not allowing them to enjoy the gift of eternal peace the Faceless men provide.Arya isn't stupid. She's recognize what the NK was about and she'd have to have gone through the north and likely get word of Jon and Sansa in doing so which would give her a home again. Arya serves House Stark now, not the many-faced god. She will not join the Night-King. Agreed. I think Arya has spent too much time serving people who failed or failed her. And she's watched her whole family die either directly or indirectly from oaths and treachery. I couldn't see her serving anyone but her family name after all she's seen and been through.  Salsa doesn't like the Taco queen. You're forgetting Littlefinger will get stabbed aaaany moment now... wait for it.... riiiight about...NOW... Keeping waiting.>sexual/romantic/borderline incestual tension between Jon and Sansa since their reunion.

ummmm. I think you're getting the show and a fanfic mixed up.There's no romantic stuff shown between Sansa and Jon, subtle or blatant.He might be trying to push them together. He knows about R+L and most likely Jon's parents. He may be trying to bring about the prophecy.It's not incest guys. They are cousins. Everyone seems to ignore this and think Jon should marry his Aunt Dragon Queen instead... :|  Both are great options for him once his parentage is revealed. But as it stands now yeah, Sansa has been playing the role of wife in way that is more than hinted at. She made him a cloak and everything. Sits on his left. Holds private counsel with him. King of the north he is, Starke he is not. Sansa fixes that. Maybe it's not blatant at this point, but there have definitely been subtle hints of romantic interest in the dialogue and the plot. I'm definitely not the only one to see it!

See: "The Stirrings of Romance" at https://winteriscoming.net/2016/09/17/romance-rivalry-benefits-jonsansa-marriage/ for example

e.g. The bumbling compliments from Jon, Jon's chivalry, the sudden intimacy of their conversations after their reunion. 

It's not farfetched.But according to this sub, this show is fanfic.I feel like your not watching the show. They are cousins, they just don't know it yet. It's not unrealistic at all. She made him a coat, sits on his left, and has private conversations with him. She has the name, he has the vassals. It's all but announced by Ravens at this point. You don't have to be Bran to see the plot is there. The show repeatedly has them mirror Cat and Ned - one romantic pairing - and act as foils to Cersei and Jaime - another romantic pairing and an incestuous pairing. 

I don't think Sansa/Jon is happening but people are wondering about this for a reason.Incest is never farfetched in this series, but I think as of right now people are reading too much into it. Also I doubt Jons story is going to take a romantic turn anytime soon.In a way I guess they aren't wrong, but it's not really the same.The coat was to make him look like Ned (you know to remind everyone that they're Ned's kids) Her sitting on his left and the private conversations are Because she's one of his advisors. Plus they think that they're brother and sister. Plus them being cousins doesn't mean anything, it's still incest. There's no romance. Yeah they don't mirror Ned and catYeah, they do.at least some of the Unsullied seem to be used to assault The Rock.

as for the Dothraki, Dorne, the Reach, or the Riverlands seem like nice places for them to hang outProbably in Dorne and the Reach, preparing to invade the Stormlands and Westerlands. On the boats they've just sailed for the past 12 weeks on.My question is where do they go after the war??  Someone's getting relocated or moved in on after the war is over.A wise commander would most likely split his forces up and land them in a couple of different spots along the Eastern coast of Westeros. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*The population of the Riverlands has been decimated and for the rest of the realm it's only going to get worse. There's going to be plenty of space, and I'd be willing to wager that a large portion of the fighting forces for all sides will be significantly thinned out. Recall, there is a giant army of the dead marching southI hear there's gonna be a rock in the west completely vacant.  
Same goes for some Islands in the North.They certainly will want to go back to the grasslands. It's not like they are any kind of real threat to Danny as long as she has dragons. I was wondering if they split, also. The whole episode was very disjointed for me-I am eager to see E2 and hope it resolves the nonsense.You've got me there. My aims to have a season of walking across westeros has been discovered.


You're just incapable at accepting any criticism to 'your' show no matter how warranted it may be.Dragon heads really look fake lol. Look at dragons etched in stone from earlier seasons with Stannis, they looked better.Why freaking cares why no one was there? Who was going to fight against that ENORMOUS fleet/army/dragons? They're just moving the show along with this ep.I do think that it is a stunning castle; I really like those spiky battlements and walls.

But I do agree with you that in the context of Dragonstone from the books, it is not as insanely cool and creepy as what is described by George.

While I disagree with their decision to have it abandoned (Stannis would never do that), they did depict it as dirty and grimy, like it had been left in a hurry... except for that gate.

It looked like the gate had been freshly power-washed.

The dragon heads looked like styrofoam!I remember an interview on Season 2 with the Art Director saying they didn't chose the dragon shapes because it would be too Disney-like. I get that.The problem is that all those gargoyles and dragons are expensive as hell. 

The boring castle means we get expensive battles and suchDragonstone was not built by magic, and there ARE dragon shaped buildings. And there doesn't have to be an active volcano to have obsidian, just volcanic activity underground (like we have been told dragonstone has, sitting on a mountain of dragonstone.)Because it's lazy writing and an example of the serious decline in quality of the show since the first season?

This pseudo justification merely allows the show's writers to get away with subpar writing And you're right, there is a volcano on the island. Dragonstone is located below the Dragonmount volcano and shaped from stone to look like dragons.

Here's it described in the books, from A Wiki of Ice and Fire:

>Dragonstone is a grim place. The castle was built by the Valyrians, using arcane arts, fire, and sorcery. With the use of magic, the Valyrians were capable of liquefying stone. The dragonlords loved little more than twisting stone into strange, fanciful, and ornate shapes, and as such used their magic to shape the castle to look like multiple dragons. Smaller dragons can be found throughout the castle. Small dragons frame gates and dragon claws hold torches. A pair of great wings cover the armory and smithy, and dragon tails form archways and staircases. The citadel of Dragonstone is wrought all of black stone (the "stones of hell", if old tales are true). Instead of merlons, grotesques and gargoyles serve as brooding crenellations along the three curtain walls. Designs include basilisks, cockatrices, demons, griffins, hellhounds, manticores, minotaurs, wyverns, and other creatures. Further, statues in the shape of dragons can be found all over the castle.Nice point, though sad (I love how books aren't bounded by budget in what they can describe) I do believe that Dragonstone was supposedly built in the typical Valyrian way, using dragonfire to liquefy stone and then using magic to shape the molten rock. So you could say that it was built by magic (though not solely by magic).You're nuts. Watching a full episode of people walking across Westeros or on a boat just to make you feel better about the time line isn't better writing. The way they wrote all the story lines into the same time frame was genius.I always thought magic was used both to liquefy rocks and to reshape them! I think it's one of those things that's kind of left up in the air and vague since it's the techniques are long-lost (like the techniques to make Valyrian steel). But we know dragonfire can melt stone, so it'd make sense them to have used dragonfire for the actual melting of the stone.I think people writing off Littlefinger as just in love/lust for Sansa are selling him short. The whole take has been set up as  fire and ice, Danny and Jon, and Varys and Littlefinger pushing the buttons on their respective sides.

I think Sansas comment about knowing what he wants is setting her up for being overconfident in her abilities, and getting played by the greatest.I think it's going to be more of a "you were there and did nothing about this" outburst.  But man, it would be cool if his parentage is hinted atI hope he fucking scalps him. I just want Jon to crush him. The Vale lords all hate Littlefinger as well, Royce wanted Littlefinger gone but was too afraid to act against him after Robyn Aryn threw a temper tantrum. Let's just slice him open and be done with it.I'm so done with little finger.   OoooOOOoOO they're in the crypts!If LF were to somehow tell Jon about his heritage, Jon gets mad, and then LF tells Sansa...? I think that would cause a major rift between Jon/Sansa. Maybe even have her and LF try to rally the north behind them instead of Jon. God, I know Littlefinger is an evil guy or whatever, but I'd almost be willing to pay HBO to film a version of the series where he wins. I hate him as a person, but goddamn, is he interesting to watch."Nice coat." Can't wait till LF bites it. Seems more likely that Jon finds out about his Targ heritage when Bran rolls in and wants to be lord of Winterfell.Man I can't wait for this particular scene. Really anticipating what Littlefinger must have said to get Jon so worked up!! It's give Jon a tod bit of knowledge but not all of it.  He holds a card that can disrupt the alliance that may be coming between him and Danny.  Which would put him closer to the throne and Danny won't like that nor would targ haters in the north.  Also it would begin to drive a wedge between Sansa and Jon because they may look differently at each other.  CRYPTS HYPE We do see Littlefinger get choked out by Jon, I wonder what Littlefinger tells him that pisses him off. Something about his parentage perhaps?It's the evil stud muffin. Jon's eye roll is the bestI'm going to assume he says something clever.I hope he bitchslaps Littlefinger. By his look Snu is annoyed Regardless of what LF ends up saying, Jon should be pissed that a relative stranger, from the south no less, enters the crypts and disrupts him while he's (I assume) paying tribute to his father."Hey Jon you think your sister likes me?"Is Jon Snow gonna have to choke a bitch?LF: "The North is a laddah." 

JS: "Please stop."LF about to drop a knowledge bomb and get choked tf out!All I want is someone who looks at me the way Littlefinger looks at Jon.Fuck him up, Jon!Hopefully little finger convinces jon to open up the crypt and we see some evidence in there for Lyanna and Rhaegar's relationship."Well, I had her maidenhead, as well." - Petyr, probably.That "I'm about to straggle this fucker in like 5 seconds" look.We gonna see Littlefinger get owned!I want it to happen too. It's so sad knowing he is going to die sooner or later. No way he can survive till the end. I know. Me too. If somebody has to win here is my list.

1) Littlefinger. A smart and resourceful man who develops a plan to assume power and institute a meritocracy.

2) The Night King. Because the bad guys never win. I know it will be Jon, Dany and Bran or Tyrion riding the Dragons and saving the realm at the last minute, but damn it would be awesome to see them lose.

3) Euron. The book version has a magical plan that rivals Littlefinger's nonmagical plan. The show version may have Jack Sparrow's compass.

4) Jon Snow. He takes out the White Walkers with Sam's knowledge, and then he informs Dany, that as the eldest Targ, he's taking the throne.

5) Jaime as regeant/protector of the realms. He kills Cersei, Jon and Dany battle it out against each other or the White Walkers and while they stop them, they are either dead or in no position to take the iron throne. Jaime, steps up and governs even through he doesn't want it any more.

6) Dany. It's been obvious that D&D love her.

Same. I also just realized how it's probably going to go down. When Bran sees Edd at the wall, he instantly knew everything Edd has been through and seen, so evidently he has that ability now. The second he sees Baelish at Winterfell, he's going to ruin him.I can't see Bran really trying to sabotage Jon like that, especially when it would likely doom them all."Jon, Ned is NOT your father!"

How would he know that? Who knows how Littlefinger knows anything?The thing is, LF needs something to prove that. If he just says that Jon is Rhaegar's son with no evidence then it will just make him look crazy in front of a bunch of people who already hate him.Littlefinger is playing the same trick he did on Ned, and Jon is going to react the same exactly way.I expect he'll say something negative about Ned or even hint that Ned wasn't his *real* father. You don't think he's going to bury rickon?Especially when Sansa told him how trustworthy LF is.[deleted]"Nuh. Please stop asking."Shhhhhhhhhhhh"Shtop" FTFYLF: "And so you see. Simon and Simon were not brothers in real life, only on television."

JS: "Get to the point already.""Getting real tired of your shit littlefinger"LF: "That isn't what your sister said to me last night..."I feel like this is Bran's secret to tell, not LF's. I also don't think they're going to inform Jon this early in the season. But it's a short season... so maybe.
A note from Eddark, "Dear Jon, have I got a story for you..."what fan theory are they gonna put in the crypt for us? harp/ roses/ or lightbringer?I've seen this mentioned many times. 
Can someone tell me why Baelish would tell Jon his lineage, or make him discover it? What would be his motives behind that, if anything it just helps Jon's cause even more in my opinion. 
Moments later: "Oh, just bones... Sorry, I guess I convinced you to desecrate your mothers grave for no reason... Sorry..." " This fucking guy ... " "Ah the Starks.  Quick tempers, slow minds."

Littlefinger generally gets the last laugh.Choked.Do you really think that it would be in character for Jon to actively try to take the Iron Throne, when there's already a viable claim on it?  

It makes way more sense for him to just remain in the North, but if he does claim the Iron Throne then I can only see it being because Dany is dead.I got one more alternative ending. Last paragraph of ADOS:    
"The heads of Daenerys Targaryen, Jon Snow and Tyrion Lannister were already beginning to rot under the heat of the Summer sun. It was his 101st name day, and the second day of his reign. Walder Frey sat on the iron throne at last, hoping his new wife Sansa would bear him more trueborn sons."They wouldn't show him going back to the ToJ if it wasn't going to be significant to his story. I doubt Bran would be out to sabotage him but he's definitely going to use that information somehow.Sabotage him by telling him he's a Targaryen?Haha. I actually think it's believable that Littlefinger might know what went down at ToJ. But I don't think that's what's happening here, because I don't really see what advantage Littlefinger has to gain by revealing one of his "cards," so to speak. Littlefinger hasn't been backed into a corner yet, and giving information for free is not something he does. Also, the last two seasons are supposed to be going at breakneck speed but having Jon find out two episodes after we/Bran find out seems a little *too* fast. I'm thinking it'll be Bran who breaks the news to him. In this scene Littlefinger probably is saying something about Ned though. I just imagined him saying it like Maury Povich. I don't think anyone cares about him anymore.Pretty sure that has already been dealt with.yeah thats what he should be doingWhat makes you think they do?Actually, that's exactly what she said to him last night.

> No need to seize the last word Lord Baelish, I’ll assume it was something clever.” – Sansa


edit: Also, LF knows Jon isn't Sansa's sister. Jon's sister is dead, so unless LF is a necrophile/pedophile, he probably would've said something else." I slipped her the ol little finger, Ifuknowhatimean"LF might tell Jon first but it will take Bran's testimony for Jon to finally accept and believe it Maybe because LF uses information as power. That's his only weapon. If he reveals this to Jon then both Jon and Sansa(the Vale army) will feel like they owe LF a debt. If Jon dies, LF could work his way(somehow) into some sort of weird relationship with Sansa to be uber close to ruling the North. Just imo...If Jon gets Iron throne, Sansa gets winterfell.There was a line specifically about Ned's blood running through Jon's veins when they declared Jon king in the north. So revealing that he doesn't actually have Ned's blood (unlike Sansa) would be a way to take power away from Jon.I guess it's gonna turn out that northerners and the Valemen hate Targs. So if he's a targ he might lose support. You see, Lord Snow, when Lyanna was still alive there was often one extra bone inside her body.Lyanna and Rhaegar come back as wights and start banging each other, and that's how we know she truly loved him.Sansa took it from him this time at least.He won't get the last laugh this season ;)yeh. going to be unreal when sansa betrays both Jon and LF and we actually get an interesting "main" stark. havent had one since robbJon: "I am no Stark"You don't get to have the last laugh if that slow mind snaps your neck.Doubtful. It would have to be Jon the good and wise unifying the realm once and for all to stop the mad queen Dany.Probably to give Jon some clue to defeating the Others...and also because he probably feels that Jon has a right to know.What good would it do for him?Sam sent a letter to Jon about the dragonglass in dragonstone, and we saw Dany getting there.

So one way or the other they are going to have to interact, LF may try to pin them against each other, he said that his goal is the throne, and pointing two of the most powerful players against each other is in his best interest.LF doesn't even know Jon. I see it likely as LF trying to size him up and get an understanding of who he is.I wish there was a gif of Sean Bean dancing and celebrating![deleted]I loved that, she really took a page from the Queen of Thorns book!Wait.  LF knows who's Jon's real parents are?  How did he find out?Read that as "I fuck now"What about Bran? Shouldn't he get WF?He does share Ned's blood, though. He's his nephew. Ned isn't his father, but they're still blood relatives.I mean that's because that is what they all believe, but if the truth come out, he's still the only make Stark left.

I view the northerners as more conservative in certain ways. Evident by of the scenes in the show, latest episode when Jon says women included should fight. I think they would prefer a King over a Queen.But this also means he's half Stark, and not a bastard (and because of his upbringing pretty much 100% Stark).That was the original outline until someone suggesting having a character warg into a tree so he could see the past... oh shit that's just as crazy sounding.Where *is* rhaegar buried?This just made me think ... they burned the bodies outside winterfell so they couldn't get reanimated if the knights king makes it that far south but what about the bodies in the crypt. . . 

Think we'll be seeing any reanimated starks in the future? Well that escalated quickly. "Fool! No Stark can kill me!"\*stabs LF in the face Witch King style\*I'm Jon Fookin Snow. I mean, if a dude killed me for keeping his wife in a brothel, I would probably   die laughing at leastAside from knowing the truth about his identity?No I think mine is more likely thank you for playing thoFuck if I know, but when he was in the crypts with Sansa a while back he basically laid that card out to the viewer.I Fucked Now


IFNI fuk now hat I meanHe should be at this moment Littlefinger and Sansa think Brans dead right?It's the last episode of season 6. It shows Lyanna making Ned promise, the first straightforward reveal that Jon isn't Ned's. It immediately fades from baby Jon to brooding Jon, and that scene happens. The Mormont girl gives a speech specifically building to "I don't care if he's a bastard, Ned Stark's blood runs through his veins."

She refers to the Stark family in general in other bits but she is specific about Ned there. Ned and Jon and Lyanna all have Rickard's blood, but Jon doesn't have Ned's. If not for the fact that this was literally two minutes after they confirmed Jon isn't Ned's, the phrasing would be less important, but you can't really think that setup was coincidental?Bran's still available and also a female Stark means one of the northern lords gets to marry Sansa.Jon just ordered every girl and woman to learn to fight. A little girl is one of his fiercest supporters and has earned respect from the older male warriors around her. If the reveal that Jon isn't Ned's son comes after they're starting to see women have a more equal place, it might be a bit weird to insist the bastard son of Ned's sister inherits the North before the trueborn daughter of Ned and Catelyn. Even if ultimately most would pick Jon, it creates chaos while they sort that out. Which Littlefinger loves.Northerners don't like the Targaryens and Jon would be viewed as a child of rape So it's better for him that he's the son of the man who started the war by seemingly kidnapping and raping a Northern woman?Still a bastard I'm pretty sure.He wasn't. He was cremated.His body was never found, IIRC.

In the books he's just finished running around Winterfell killing people with a bunch of spearwives.Rhaegar = Night's King confirmed!!

/she was burned, like a proper targaryenI posted this idea on another thread lol. Got the idea because in my head the final battle against the WW is at Winterfell ( Winter fell, geddit)> By ancient custom an iron longsword had been laid across the lap of each who had been Lord of Winterfell, to keep the vengeful spirits in their crypts. The oldest had long ago rusted away to nothing, leaving only a few red stains where the metal had rested on stone. Ned wondered if that meant those ghosts were free to roam the castle now. He hoped not. I hate and love this idea simultaneously. It would be horrible yet awesome.Unless someone hid a jackhammer around there, I think we're fine.Lmao everybody just starts banging and the others get freaked out and leave "nothin personnel kid"DAKINGINDANORFI am a fooking legendBut you're still dead.And? He potentially loses the support from the Northern lords, probably gets into a weird spot with Dany, and then has to live with the fact that Ned lied to him about everything.All LF is implying there is that Lyanna wasn't abducted by Rhaegar.Got an episode and/or page number for this? Curious to seeThey know rickon was alive so... Ned was the lord they all respected and all followed without a second thought, of course he's going to be the figure she invokes.

And to get technical, yes, Jon does have Ned's blood. Aunt/uncle-niece/nephew relations share 25% of their DNA. Which, actually, since the Starks have their fair share of incest back in the day and Ned's own parents were cousins, it's probably a bit more than 25%.

The phrasing *was* intentional. She said Ned's blood runs through Jon's veins, not that Ned's his father.They don't know Bran is alive still, right?Except Jon is also an accomplished warrior, something the North respects.

And I feel like they "begrudgingly" accepted the outcome, otherwise they wouldn't have the outspoken critic. It was to show that times are changing, shit is getting real, everyone needs to chip in. Jon essentially called for a Total War.Except he'll probably learn she wasn't raped and kidnapped. Depending on how he finds out that is.

Isn't part of the R+L=J theory is that Lyanna ran away with Rhaeger?a Sand, no less. Jon Sand the Targaryen probably doesn't seem as appealing for a king in da norf to the other northern houses. especially when there's a trueborn Stark who's shown her strength in recent town hallsActually yea......you're right. Unless they somehow got married in the time they eloped :P> In the books he's just finished running around Winterfell killing people with a bunch of spearwives.

I see what you did there...IIRC the last we hear from him was when he sent Jon a letter, after that, silence.Possible foreshadowing ? Dun dun dunnnnNight's King: "I didn't sign up for this shit. Let's roll.""While you were out having premarital sex, I studied the blade."Jon fookin LegendLF just knowing that and nothing else would seem a bit pointless though.[Here you go.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bfnl9owFc84)

Oh, and it appears LF knows because he was at the Tourney of Harrenhall.S5E4 He tells Sansa the story of the Tourney of HarrenhallNot yet but Bran will be around by the time the truth is known I'm not disagreeing on what a vote count might end up showing, but it would still cast doubt and divide people. I'm fairly certain the daughter of a ruler inherits before a nephew. Especially a daughter before a bastard nephew. It doesn't have to be enough drama to remove him from leadership. Just enough to get people whispering and second guessing and grumbling in the back of the room. That's what Littlefinger works with.

I'm more worried about Bran in all of this. Jon's BFF just met him and has access to ravens. And Sansa mirrors Anne Neville too much. Like, the sudden reappearance of a trueborn male heir threatens Sansa AND Jon. And all the people who might want one of those two to be in power. All the theory means is that Jon is Rhaegar and Lyanna's child, it has nothing to do with whether Rhaegar raped or kidnapped her.I'm just stating what the Northern lords believe about Rhaegar.He's not a Sand. Bastard surnames are chosen based on where the child is raised, not where they're from. Hence why Oberyn's first four daughters are all Sands despite being born elsewhere, or why Edric Storm isn't a Flowers even though he was born in the Reach and Bittersteel was a Rivers even though he was born in King's Landing.They couldn't have. Rhaegar was already married.Oh yeah! Good call.Night's King: EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEWWWWWW cooties :(The point is for the audience to get hints that the official story might not be right.Right so that will probably change LFs plans if he's still alive...Still, most evidence points to it being consensual.Unless Rhager and Lyanna were married under the old gods and not the seven.At the very very beginning, maybe.Lyanna literally told us they weren't. She calls him a bastard. His name is probably Jaehaerys, though it's not clear what he says. Did people just not watch that episode, or what? Are you saying other faiths don't recognize marriages? Robert and Cersei were married in a sept, are you saying that the North didn't recognize them as married? Ned and Cat were as well, are you saying the North didn't recognize them as married? Alys and Sigorn were married under R'hllor, are you saying no one else believes them married? The Iron Islanders marry under the drowned god, are you saying the rest of the continent doesn't see them as married?

Surely that must be what you mean, considering Rhaegar followed the Seven and was married extremely publicly--not to mention had two children including an heir--and thus could not have possibly gotten married to someone else.Not really, Ned remembers Rhaegar fondly, he wouldnt do that if he raped (and was the cause for the death) of his sister.What?? When did she call him a bastard? I've watched the scene with subs and not once does she mention bastard lolMultiple marriages is not unheard of (about 300 years since the last one, but still), even if it makes the church mad.I didn't get your point until the 4th example. Thanks for providing so many.I think there will be a big battle at Eastwatch. And, since there was already a battle episode at Castle Black, it might make things more interesting to have it somewhere else..I think the show wanted the wildling forces to go somewhere and they chose Eastwatch. The trailers for the season show Jon and Tormund with what looks north of the wall with Beric n company. Doubt they will add a whole new set there but who knows.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*I agree. Based on the geography, though, there's a real potential the White Walkers could freeze the sea around the wall (since Eastwatch is literally by the sea) and use it as a temporary land bridge (a la the Arm of Dorne) and just, you know, White Walk around the Wall. It seems like it could be quite the cop-out. I mean, how far does the magic of the Wall reach past the actual physical Wall?The wildlings are at the castles in the books though, so it's not like it's a show creation to have them garrison the wall. That's a good point and with Bran being marked by the Night King and crossing the wall, I think that implies the magic barrier the wall has will end. Just like it did where the 3 eyed raven lived. True and I would prefer seeing more places on the show.They won't be mentioned again.As far as the show goes I think it means that House Frey has been extinguished.The men arya killed were probably true born freys
there must me hundreds of bastard freys in the riverlandsI did not notice any young children being poisoned so there is most likely a fairly young male heir.
We have no way of knowing for sure. All I know is that my username no longer checks out. [As you see here](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6n97au/spoilers_extended_the_significant_insignificant), Ser Lyle Crakehall, aka, Strongboar, aka Robert Baratheon, has a claim through Walder Frey's 3rd wife. I'm sure the show will include him in the next episode or two.  The Freys are like rats, no matter how many you kill, you can never wipe them all out.Seems like the Freys are gone for good. My guess is the Reeds will take over the Twins (Or Edmure Tully). Good way to introduce the audience to Howland Reed and allow him to reveal Jon's parentage.  If there are no remaining male heir then I believe their holding goes to whom ever has the strongest claim to it. It might possibly be Edmures son.I was gonna say you could add "dead" to the name, but there is no such thing as too many dead Frays.:D lmaoCrakehall women are all sluts, that gives further proof to Robert "the Manwhore" Baratheon being a Crakehall.Moat cailin? Isn't it kind of triangular? I thought he may be referring to the symbol the night king wears which sort of looks like an arrowhead to meI really like Sandor's initial cynicism. "Fucking logs burning". Imagine if the Mannis said that to Mel. I think you're unfortunately 100% correct, but I don't really get WHY the White Walkers would go BACK TO THE FIRST.  That's the complete opposite direction from where they would continue their march south.  Going from Hardhome, to the cave, to the Fist?  Makes no sense.Maybe it's worth noting Sam saw arrowheads in his book as well. Maybe symbolic for a mountain of dragonglass?Fist of the first men is what I thought at first as well. I wish I am wrong though but I don't see how Gregor could be asociated with an arrowhead.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*But it's build surrounding a moat, not a mountain.To be honest for an army that never sleeps, White Walkers surely take a lot of time going from one place to another. They attacked the Fist of the First Men under Jeor Mormont and then vanished. Then they attacked Hardhome that is near to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, but doubled back to an undisclosed location of attack Bran and kill Bloodraven. They come near the Wall only to be chased by Benjen Stark. Then Meera drags him all the way to Castle Black without further incident. Meanwhile Dany crossed from Meeren to Dragonstone within this time frame. You probably expect White Walkers to be at least a bit faster. Dunno what they are doing wasting their time.I agree with you. Sam did discover a mountain of dragonglass back in Dragonstone. Maybe in Hound's vision he saw a way to defeat the White Walkers. Kind of defeats the purpose though. Back from Great Ranging by Jeor Mormont we know that obsidian kills White Walkers. They only need a source of it to mine now.

It's really sad to see that Stannis already told them about a huge dragonglass mine back when they were all at the Wall and Jon was Lord Commander but all of then conviniently forgot about it. Now Jon wants women to mine dragonglass with bow and arrow and Sam took a whole trip to Oldtown to remember what Stannis told them.Sorry to disappoint but I'm not sure that Cleganebowl is possible. In this season atleast. The Hound is on his journey north where he is going to fight the White Walkers. With the season cut down to 7 episodes I don't see any reason why the show will make him go to south pointlessly to battle with his brother when Dany is going to descend on Cersei and make a toast out of her.True. Plus with the way the show has been attempting to shrink the world for budget and endgame purposes I doubt that they go back there. I agree it is unlikely but we saw someone looking like Sandor somewhere south in the trailer. 

Anyways we will see. I also believe that they meant the fist of the first men.I don't think the show will add the horn. Eurons gift will most likely be the heads of Cersei's enemies. I am guessing the Dornish Sands or Tyrell. It would be interesting if they did add it though.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Sands or Tyrell would be a good plot point... makes their houses every bit as extinct as the Lannister line. But yeah I still gotta hope for the horn but it would seem the showrunners are going for a more simple and to-the-point plot. Your theory is probably more likely.It seemed like he just stayed at Winterfell but who knows if the book will have him getting orders from the Citadel to maester for Winterfell going forward Was maester Wolkan assigned to Winterfell?
Or simply stays there after Lord Bolton dies?
It's because the Maester is usually loyal to the keep rather than the House he serves. That wasn't the case for Maester Luwin to a point but that was after years of being treated well. It was obvious that Maester Wolkan didn't agree with and feared Ramsay.I just noticed there's a show producer with the name Wolkan. I wonder if this character is named after him?Will be interesting if he gets to interact with Bran. A Maester and a magical guy.  Im still wondering just what the maesters are up to. They have to be cooking something up. They are in every stronghold!!! Also i feel like Aemon was totally out of touch with the rest of the realm. How did Oldtown not know he was dead? Not as relieved as all the Maesters  at the Citadel. Did you see all that poop Sam had to clean on screen?I wonder about his backstory.  He has an impressive Maester's chain.  Longer than Luwin's and on par with Pycelle.  Maybe he is a Northman.  Maybe he slipped up somewhere and was assigned to the Dreadfort.  He must be celebrating when the Bolton were defeated
I think in the show the maesters are just loyal to whoever is ruling the castle
the exception would be ;
maester aemon who was also a brother of nights watch,
maester luwin who was attached to the stark kids because he performed the delivery when lady stark was giving birth, he basically raised the stark kids ,
and Grand maester pycelle who was probably loyal to no one Upppgrade!I like that he was spared. And it was funny, you could tell Sansa was annoyed by that too. I hope all these people Jon is showing mercy to don't randomly stab him in the back.And he's got a rad-ass beard now, too!They might need to keep an eye on that guy though. He could be a Bolton loyalist still hanging around.Had exactly the same thought when he popped on screen last night, haha. What a dramatic improvement! 
It is a puzzle that the Citadel wasn't aware of Maester Aemon's death via raven either from maester Mullen or from maester Harmune.  
Yes.
If I had a golden dragon for everything in the show that puzzles me...  


A curious little thread on the subject of maesters at the Wall  
https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/3pui0t/spoilers_published_question_concerning_maesters/
Have you seen the theories that the Masters are like anti-dragon? Google around if you haven't, there are some in-depth theories about going way back how they are there to oppose the return of dragons/the Targaryen line.Didn't know Alex Jones was in r/asoiaf.I really hope that's a Karate Kid-like test... Otherwise, what the fuck is wrong with these people?!A politically inclined, tenured professional in an institute of higher learning sending a promising young talent off to the ends of the earth; so as to avoid future competition?

Nah that kind of thing could never happen. :D
He’s got a twisted mentat vibe.That's what I noticed too. He isn't in the books so I'm curious as to what links he has in his chain. I think it also speaks to his character that even though Ramsey was crazy, he maintained his duty to the citadel just like Luwin did with Theon. Someone like Pycelle would have immediately abandoned their responsibilities.I think he was a smart, eager, chad of the citadel.  Then one day, he was assigned to The Dreadfort.  And decades with Roose turned him into a shivering coward of a man.Pycelle was loyal to the Lannisters. Mainly Tywin. After his demise his loyalties are now with the rightful heir, Tywin's lil bro.Pycelle was loyal to and probably had a crush on Tywin.Upgrayed*Spared how? Maesters are assigned to a place and serve whichever family are in control of itIsn't it standard for the Maester of a castle to remain in place when ownership changes, even if by force? They are sworn to serve the Lord of the castle, whoever it is. Agreed, I'd rather they stab him in the front.It'd only make sense if we had seen Ramsey or Roose letting him do crazy experiments on bodies or something. Then Jon tells him to cut it out, and then he'd have a reason to hold a grudge against Jon. 

Seems just like a normal dude though trying to help out.He seemed pretty surprised and not a fan of Ramsay when Ramsay killed Roose. I doubt he was loyal to RamsayHe seems like a nice man, even when serving the Boltons. If he is a Bolton loyalist, who does he support and what does it get him?Maesters seem mostly intent on serving whomever rules at the given moment.

plus, what would he gain from dying for trying to mess up the north now?It's not theories -- the Maesters are wholly against magic and dragons and the like. They are a science people, not magic.Marwin outright tells Sam that the Maesters had something to do with killing dragons.AERYS TARGARYAN IS A RAPIST INFOWARS DOT COMSept of Baelor was an inside job. A building that sturdy has never collapsed from wildfire alone before.I don't think it's a test. The life of an acolyte is just a shitty one.He was clearing out the infirmary too. I think a lot of them were seriously ill. To give Pycelle some credit, he had to be bossed around by Cersei while Tywin wasn't around.  And a drunken Robert.  And a crazy Aerys.  The guy's been through shitty rulers.Upgrayedd*With two d's, for a double dose of "this pimping"But that´s way too vague, I mean is that de jure or de facto control? Even if you explain it, is hard to not see it as a betrayal if the same maester brought your children to life(in case of Luwin).Yes. Just like how Luwin served Theon. 

Edit: It's natural to have affection for the Starks and their children, after he brought them into the world and practically raised them up.For the watch?LOLQyburn was one of the (former)maesters with the boltons who experimented on peopleWe know it, but Jon shouldn't know it.He seemed pretty horrified when Ramsay told him to get Walda. Yeah I'm not saying he's a bad guy or anything, in fact I don't think he's a Bolton loyalist at all, but there's always that small chance.That explains why the theories are so we'll thought out then!

Yeah sorry my memories of the books fade further each session.Oh, oops.Tommen was PUSHED out of the red keep. Infowars.comJust like real world.Maybe thats why he was so loyal to Tywin - the contrast he experienced between Aerys as ruler and when Tywin as the hand had more control instead.I found myself consistently agreeing with his advice throughout AFFC. Turns out he was actually right about most things, and Cersei was ( unsurprisingly ) wrong.  Notflayed.And just like grand maester Pycelle served Aerys II. In fact if I remember correctly from the books you can't really change a maester in your castle, you are stuck with whom ever Citadel sends you.I don't think he wears one.  Might have a money pouch though.no, so *he* can watch.For the watch.Quyburn served the Brave Companions a Sellsword company hired by the Boltons, he never worked for the Boltons personally.There's always a chance!Unless he is *poisoned by his enemies .....**does an angry Olley face*

For the watch.Fuck Olly.I really don't get how so many people hate Olly. I disagree with what he did but it was completely understandable given the position he was in, it was Jon's fault for being a dumbass. Olly saw his parents and entire village butchered in front of him at a very young age, and was told they were going to be eaten. For all of his life, we can assume he'a learned about the night's watch as good guys who protect people from wildlings, the bad guys. Obviously good/bad isn't so black and white, but as a little kid that's what you're taught. So he is under the impression that he's working at the wall to help the watch defeat the wildlings, to help the good guys defeat the people who butchered and ate his family and friends. Yet instead, with very poor explanation as to why, Jon allies with these people. So to Olly, Jon is the enemy now.

Obviously I see why Jon had to ally with the wildlings, but he was so shit at communicating this necessity, he caused his own deathFor the watch
About 85% was annoying kid actor* being obvious emotional manipulation shoehorned into the show.

*And as Little Ms Awesome Bear Island shows it's entirely possible to have great kid actors.You're technically right, but he did kill Ygritte and then gave the nod... So, fuck Olly.You make a lot of salient points; nonetheless, fuck Olly.I completely can't understand that Lyanna Mormont character hype. It's a token STRUNG GIRL that makes whole room full of huge, bearded men shut up. Twice.
It's tumblresque and cringy as hell, completely takes out any complexity of a character.
 >*And as Little Ms Awesome Bear Island shows it's entirely possible to have great kid actors.


Or Stranger Things
I remember thinking it was probably the most inappropriate bro nod in Westerosi history.I thought it was good the first time when Jon and Sansa met her on Bear Island, but it's feeling old and forced now. I agree that it's tumblresque now and YAAAS QUEEN SLAAYYYIt is pretty silly. Robb, who was practically a grown man, had to frighten people with his pet wolf to get them to take him seriously. Dany had fucking dragons. Even, Arya, who'd killed at least one person, had those Brotherhood guys laughing at her for carrying a sword, yet little Lyanna Mormont can shut down big-ass quasi-barbarian motherfuckers with a few words and a stern look?If you've read the first book and still think WoT is a better series, you're totally screwed. Just stop and go back to the pulp sci-fi fantasy that you're craving...You are allowed not to like it. Personally it's my favorite series I have ever read, with A Storm of Swords being one of my all time favorite books. A Song of Ice and Fire means a lot to me. However, I really didn't like The Wheel of Time. While I felt that this series was grounded in realism, with rich world building, I felt WoT was too childish, and paper thin. Am I right? Of course not. This is just my opinion. I couldn't bring myself to like it, so I don't.

However, the allure of the series is the gritty realism of it. As people will be quick to proclaim (over and over and over), the characters are gray, and more interesting for it. Good and evil aren't so clear cut as in other fantasy series. Truthfully, it does read a little like a history book when you first start reading. You have to get through a lot of names and places. But eventually you pick up on more and more, and in the end it all feeds into the amazingly vivid world GRRM has created. It's epically ambitious in scope, which in itself has gotten GRRM into trouble. His writing pace is troubling to say the least. That's not to say the series is perfect. To tell it true there are slow parts, and storylines that outlast its welcome. But ultimately, there is magic in these pages. Something truly special.  At the end of the day, beauty is in the eye of the beholder. Perhaps give it a fair go, and if it doesn't click...it's ok. Nothing wrong with it. It's low magic, even in the later books there's not a lot of magic going on. There's some of course but nothing even approaching the scale of WoT. 
Don't fall in the fallacy of sunk costs, man. If you don't like it by the second book there's nothing wrong with that. Just move on.If you don't like it, forget about it. I've never read the lord of the rings. 50 pages in I wanted to shoot myself. If it helps the magic picks up the farther in you go  "Help me love this book series that I don't like" 

I mean idk what you actually want. You don't like it, so I don't understand what the draw is for you to like it? Do you just wanna be a part of the community or something? Do you just wanna be "cool" (not that it actually makes you cool/uncool) like people who like it? 


>I have to be missing something... I can't be one of those strange souls who just flat out doesn't like the books.

I think the thing you are missing is that you are one of those people who flat out doesn't like it haha. I would just say read through the third book. If you don't like it by then then give up. Storm of Swords is the best book in my opinion and some great stuff happens in it.It's not for you, cut your losses and move on. No point trying to fit a square peg into a round hole.> I want to love the books

Why? 

You have read the first book and don't like it. The tone doesn't dramatically change, and it actually slows down in books four and five. Why not just tap out, knowing this isn't for you?There's a saying where i'm from. 

Love by force is called rape. 

That's what you're trying to do. You can't force yourself to love it. It doesn't work like that. And like someone else said, if you got that far and it didn't hook you, there's really no point in trying to force it.

I love ASOIAF to bits, it's genuinly my favourite series and a big part of my life. But loving a series is a little bit like falling in love : you can't really choose who it happens with, and that's part of it's magic. Nothing's for everyone. If you got halfway into the second book and didn't dig it, it's probably not going to happen.

Don't sweat it. There's plenty of fantasy out there.Why the hell do you want to like it so bad? If it's not for you then it's not for you. And that's fine. Yup.Jesus dude...Where are you from with a saying like that?it's meant to say you can't force love. in any way, even with the best intents, you can't force feelings. i swear it sounds far better in my language. [it's meant as a dark joke, ffs](https://s-media-cache-ak0.pinimg.com/originals/e2/08/76/e20876abb285bc3341a1c04084927e50.jpg)...Honestly, i've only ever heard it from very few people in my native small town. Eastern Europe.What do you guys think about what Euron said? Is he really the best pirate in the world? It's his iron fleet the most dangerous fleet in Westeros?As far as strategy goes for LF, wouldn't he be better suited at revealing after Jon leaves? (assuming he knows something of course)

It would be much easier to undermine him without him there.Isn't Jon just as much a Stark as he is a Targaryen?My guess is that Jon doesn't learn his linage until after he and Dany meet. I don't know. I'm obviously just speculating. I think the show made a point to show littlefinger smirking at some of the discord between Jon and Sansa during that town hall meeting or whatever.

Maybe he thinks he can undermine Jon and put Sansa in charge by revealing Jon's a targ? That's possibly advantageous to him, since he has more access to Sansa (even though she hates him right now).

Ultimately, I don't see anything working out for LF anyways. So I guess it's a moot point. I'm more just wondering if there's any type of evidence to prove that Jon is a targ. Like I said in the op, I hope it's not just something silly like "oh man, the dragons like him. We must be related!"Theoretically, sure. But, within the context of series, you are defined more so by your father's family than your mother's.It's going to be like the Luke and Leia plot line. They won't know and then bran will hit them with a truth Bomb But how does Danny know about Jon's linage? I think that's wrong.

The only one who knows about Jon's true parents is Bran and I don't think Bran and Jon will see each other during this season (Jon has to go to Dragonstone). My guess is that Jon will know the truth until season 8.Definitely possible as well.

I'm just guessing that Littlefinger will try and cause some chaos in Winterfell since that the type of environment he said that he thrives on. What better way to cause some chaos than to discredit the king's legitimacy? But to do it, then he'll need some proof. So, I guess I'm answering my own question in the OP here. Maybe Littlefinger has some good evidence that Jon isn't a stark?I don't think LF knows that Jon is a Targ, that's **very** explosive information that is incredibly valuable and LF would have tried to maneuver some control or leverage over Jon had he known.  I think he was more pleased to see that Sansa was publicly undermining Jon and hoping he could sow more seeds of discord.  Howland Reed knows Jon's true parentage. He may finally make an appearance this season. 

Especially now that the Freys are gone. Who will take over the Twins? The Reeds would be in a good position to do so. I'm not sure what you are asking here. 

I think Jon and Dany meet before Jon learns the truth. I think Jon and Dany meet before Jon and Bran meet. The northern lords are already willing to overlook the fact that Jon is a bastard, and he's still half Stark because of Lyanna.  Dude, come on, you know those stories are never coming out. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*> I would definitely consider Arya the Stranger.

[So would this guy](http://imgur.com/a/HjCxD)She wears his dagger (the one the catspaw used to try and kill bran) on her belt in the promo pics posted by HBO. So their paths must cross in some way.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*squeeeeee. Might as well be confirmed at this point.Like others said, I don't think he was getting that info right there, I think he had already seen the events at FotFM and Hardhome and just remembered EddHardhome and Fist of the First Men are two huge events in the recent war with the Whitewalkers.  Makes sense Bran would have seen them through Weirwood.net and saw Edd there.  You don't know that he had just gotten all of that information on the spot. He's been connected to the weir-net almost non-stop and he can time travel when he is. He probably knows all about the Night's Watch, among other things.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*For someone hailed as being so smart, Sam sure is stupidly forgetful. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*It was a pretty passing and innocuous line by Stannis thoughwhat happened to saalador sahn? it's a relatively minor character that neither the show or the casual fans will remember or really care about they're already pressed for time with their 8 episode season or whatever so they'll probably try and streamline/simplify as much as possible. Besides if you recall last season Walder frey said he'd keep him locked up in the twins so that is the end of his story arcCasterly RockI'm curious about that one, too. Maybe we are led to believe that now that the Freys are dead, the Twins are vacant and every prisoner is free to go. Which would be ridiculous but I guess D&D just don't view Edmure as important enough to spare him a scene or two in the last thirteen episodes.Jamie said he would serve his imprisonment in Casterly rock. Mind you he said it would be a comfortable imprisonment. So if we take Jamie at his word, hes probably got his own room in the keep.I've not heard anything about Menzies being back, if he's busy I can understand them forgetting about him.In Season6 Episdoe 10, at the celeberation party at the Twins with Lannister Soldiers and the Frey's for taking Riverrun, Walder mentioned that Edmure is back in his cell - https://youtu.be/mlfZ-jXAw6w?t=1m50s

So it seems as if he is not at CRYou'll notice Jamie is in that scene, which means the Lannister army has not left the riverlands yet. Could be they are holding him in the Twins cells until they march back.

Equally possible they left him there though, since he didnt accept jamie's offer until the threats came rolling in.I think the Walkers will cross over via Eastwatch-By-The-Sea, just as the Hound predicted. They will either turn the Sea to ice via the magic they already have or, as hinted by that poster of a wight ice dragon GRRM put up outside his theater for the premier, they will obtain an ice dragon somehow and use its frost breath to make an ice bridge. 

Maybe they will kill one of Dany's dragons or maybe one already exists North of the Wall waiting to be resurrected. Maybe Summer actually saw one in that vision. The same thing happened at Hardhome though.I feel like they could just freeze the sea and walk around the wall.That was confirmed long ago, as early as S5.Does it really? You could also argue that the reason the WW and the army of the dead are moving at such a relative slow pace south (since the Hardhome massacre) is because they are waiting for the climate to become more and more in their favor. That was a question? I always thought that was a given... that's why the Long Night lasts forever until the Others are gone. I think saltwater may be more difficult for the WWs to freeze, otherwise Jon and Co. Wouldn't have made it out of hardhome, I would think. Do you remember which scene? Idk, I thought the marching scene showed the WW's power in that it transformed the land they walked over much faster than the climate usual does. Right, but if the WW's control the climate, why would they end the long night? I always saw the long night as a climate event they took advantage of, and then retreated once it was over. Hardhome.  White Walkers approach, bringing the storm with them outside of the gates.Lil Jon, House Umber, Words: Turn Down for What.fidget spinner long swordBut they can't fucking remember  Moat Cailin. Those are not longswords, these are one-handed swords. Longclaw is a longsword. 

\* tips fedora and disappears in the dark \*Honestly, it's probably the same prop. They do the same with the wood bottomed horn ale mugs. They pop up all over Westeros.It would be awesome if the writing team cared about continuity half as much as the props, set, costume, and music teams all do. Why did I think these were the karstarks for some reason? What's the significance of the hilt though? Is it supposed to be links of a chain? It seems Umbers moved on from Jons to Neds at the wrong time lol. Bad timing.WeeJon Umber it isNICE CATCH!i swear they made Ned Umber look like a young Ned Stark on purposeI find it pretty strange that D&D can remember these tiny details to put in their show but can't remember that feudal succession exists. I'll give gold to anyone who can satisfactorily explain to me how oberyn's girlfriend is now the ruler of Dorne, or how Cersei Lannister is Queen of a country that doesn't recognize female succession.Was going to say at least give credit to the OP, but it turns out that you are the OP haha.Can we all agree to call the guy Tinyjon Umber though?At least the prop department is concerned with continuityPoor Smalljon. From heroic in the books to raging prick on the show that ends up being a late lunch for Tormund.I mean... It might even be the same sword.Long swords are one handed, great swords are two handed.  And Longclaw is a bastard/hand and a half sword, no?Probably, but don't all little boys look the same?There is also an overarching theme of women in power in GOT -- which is more important to the show than paths of succession People cared about succession law when it suited them. William the conqueror was made the rightful heir of england by Edward the confessor, but Harrold Godwinson defied the will and got himself elected king by the english lords after Edward's death. Mary Stuart (not that one) was made queen over her brother Charles because he was catholic. Jane Grey was made queen over Mary Tudor because Mary was catholic. Juan of Castile was made heir to the portugese throne, but the people of portugal hateed him and crowned John of Aviz instead. Jean Baptiste Bernadotte was born a commoner with no claim to any throne whatsoever, but was chosen as heir to the throne of Sweeden for his military skill> I'll give gold to anyone who can satisfactorily explain to me how oberyn's girlfriend is now the ruler of Dorne, or how Cersei Lannister is Queen of a country that doesn't recognize female succession.

Okay. Everyone thinks they'll get fucking murdered if they don't go along with it.Cersei is queen because she said so. With regards to Cersei, whilst she might not be able to control the Lannister army, she can likely control the troops in the immeadiate vicinity - enough to force through her coronation in King's Landing.

Beyond that - why would anyone bother to make a fuss? Either they rebel and fail and are killed by Cersei, or they succeed and either become a rival or immeadiately bend the knee to Daenerys. Why not just wait for Daenerys to win the fight and kneel to her - or at least wait until her forces are near and declare for her?

With regards to the "legality" of it, if she bothered she could just say that Tommen named her heir in his "will" (like [Lady Jane Grey](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lady_Jane_Grey)). Even where the Faith to oppose it in spirit, the Sparrows just conducted a massive purge of their own ranks, and were then destroyed. They probably don't have anyone to lead an opposition to the Crown.

For Dorne - Cersei does state Ellaria Sand and her "brood of bitches". IIRC Dorne doesn't care that much about bastardy - one of the Sand Snakes could have been elevated based on their Martell lineage, with Ellaria being the power behind the Throne.Laws are as good as the power that enforces them. Cersei still controls Lannister troops, and therefore has the power to enforce (and not enforce) whatever laws she wants, at least until another, bigger army comes by to say otherwise. The same way Robert and Aegon claimed their thrones: by killing enough of their enemies that everyone else bent the knee lest they be next.The rules don't matter if no one is there to enforce them Oberyn's paramor has the support of the Sand Snakes, and Dorne's smallfolk who would have preferred Oberyn's rule, rather than his brother's, in the first place.

I know the succession is not supposed to work that way. Here's some Patti Smith to make you feel better about it all:
https://youtu.be/pPR-HyGj2d0And who is there to replace Cersei? Who is going to even bring it up? Cersei just murdered most of the people who would actually complain.The Queen consort can wield power via her husband or son; she would be able to command loyalty of various key people. That loyalty doesn't have to go away when the husband and son goes away. [Multiple](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wu_Zetian) [people](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Empress_Dowager_Cixi) in the real world manage to turn the loyalty of key supporters into being able to rule in their own right.I think you're missing the "conquest" method of succession.  Cersei has an army and somehow lit up the sky with green fire that destroyed her enemies. I imagine anyone with a technical opposition to her claim has no power to truly dispute it at the moment.Westeros does recognise female succession. The Targaryens specifically had rules of all men inheriting before women. No one else though. Dorne has its own succession rules but it should still not be Ellaria. Cersei should not be Queen because she only married into Royalty.Here's a quote I found that may or may not help about another "Queen of Westeros":

"Although Rhaenyra Targaryen was declared heir presumptive by her father, Viserys I, her half brother Aegon II seized the throne upon his death. Nevertheless, she claimed the title Queen of Westeros. The Dance of Dragons followed, wherein Rhaenyra was eaten by Aegon's dragon."

http://iceandfire.wikia.com/wiki/List_of_Kings_of_Westeros

And a little more:

"Rhaenyra was King Viserys I's only living child by his first wife, Aemma of House Arryn. At the age of eight she was made her father's heir and grew up expecting to become the first ruling Queen of Westeros."

http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Rhaenyra_Targaryen

In summary looks like this was allowed since "Rhaenyra was her father's designated heir and he intended that she would succeed him," although she was challenged and the challenge was successful, so she failed to keep her claim as Queen.

As for Cersei, she doesn't have her father or prior king declaring her as the next rightful heir that I know of.  However I think like Rhaenyra she can claim the throne all she wants just like anyone else, and it just becomes a question of whether she will be challenged.

Some interesting stuff to think about for sure!     :DMy head-cannon is that there was an off-screen Great Council to crown Cersei. Ellaria rules Dorne by conquest. Neither answers are good, but it's all I can come up with.Power resides where one believes it does.  Ellaria and Cersei have power over enough people that they can hold their power.  Some may argue that they aren't qualified, but unless they can gain enough support, it doesn't matter.As far as Cersei goes, I don't think there's a living "Baratheon" around that anyone knows of. The succession should go something like this;

~~Robert~~
       ~~Jofrey~~
       ~~Tommen~~
~~Stannis~~
~~Renly~~
~~Myrcella~~
 ~~Shireen~~

All of whom are dead. You underestimate my greed for karma.If he was Cajun, we could call him T-Jon.What? Tinyjon is evolving!I prefer SmallerjonLittleNed and Jon Snow walking through the forest, laughin' back and forth at what the other'n has to say.OkayLil' Jon seems logical. The WeeJonLooking forward to his son, Nanojon.That is perfect.Nedjon?Is this sarcasm? Which inconsistencies are you referring to, I might have missed them.
All the complaining here is honestly getting really annoying. Do we need to hear about how "lol d&d suck" in every thread?This is honestly one of my bigger peeves with the show.  The Umbers are only fighting alongside the Boltons because they have the Greatjon captive right now.  In the show they made out the whole house to be traitors.

It felt like a clumsy attempt from the writers to make a villain out of more of the Northern houses and now to try to cause some division between Sansa and Jon.  Which was another peeve of mine with the writers.  If Sansa "learned" so much and is to politically adept now then why would she publicly disagree with Jon the way that she did?You see it better in the battle of the bastards Nah, TinyJon wouldn't have been able to kneel and have the hilt & grip below his chin. Had to be a size-appropriate version. You sure? The one Ned holds is pretty short compare to Greatjons.No. Longsword is a large category that encompasses swords, generally used with two hands, but not big enough to be a zweihander.

Bastard swords are a subset of longswords, hand-and-a-half is an alternative term for longsword that not many people use these days. Greatswords are closer to bastard swords and are an early type of longswords. 

 Zweihanders, montantes and spadones are different names for the huge two handed Renaissance swords. This ain't Skyrim broBut Dorne does care about bastards, that is why Ellaria is a paramore and not Oberyn's wife, she is a bastard. The Dornish don't see bastards as a shame but they still don't consider them part of the line of succession. The whole sand snake thing is just really sloppy all around.You mean like the other, bigger army that, last we saw, was sitting on her doorstep and basically was the only military strength propping the Lannisters up?  The one who's lord she just murdered?Much is made in season 6 and in the books of Cersei having no allies left in KL. Where did these key people suddenly spring up from?And those who are disputing it are doing it safely from hundreds of miles away.I'm definitely not missing that. Let's discuss.  

~~How does she have an army?  She shouldn't even have control of the Lannister army, it should be one of the male line of Lannisters, probably from Lannisport. Kevan was the last lord of the Rock, and she killed him. Why would Kevan's heir follow Cersei?~~ I was mistaken on this, but it still leaves the issue of the Lannister army reaching KL faster than the larger, closer, Tyrell army that can easily cut them off.

Not to mention even the right of conquest requires a bit of legitimacy to go over. Robert Baratheon's claim was based on the fact that he was technically an heir to the throne, however distant. Dornish law will always apply in Dorne, but the rest of Westeros doesn't recognize a woman's right to much of anything. Neither group recognizes succession in a way that allows Cersei to ever whiff the throne, as you mentioned. 

Interestingly, the North seems to recognize it enough to let a 10 year old be a Lord, but not enough to allow a legitimate Stark who single -handedly saved them all and won North from Ramsay to take priority in succession over her bastard half-brother/cousin. Who, without Sansa, essentially lead them all to their deaths.

[My face any time I think about this show post-S6](https://cdn.meme.am/cache/instances/folder719/500x/36681719/mr-mugatu-i-feel-like-im-taking-crazy-pills.jpg)The problem with Rhaenyra's reign was that her taking of the throne conflicted with two rulings: Andal succession law and the Great Council of 101AC, both of which favor male claimants of female. 

You could argue The Dance boiled down to King's decree vs established precedent, but in truth it was all about who displayed more power and garnered more support.

As it relates to Cersiei, she killed all her rivals and detractors in KL and has control of the Lannister army through Jaime, exerting control over what was surely a chaotic sequence of events. People can denounce her all they want, but at the bare minimum she has control of the Capital, which lends to her legitimacy in a way.

Ellaria has only the Bad Poosay squad. Any house in Dorne would both have a better claim to Sunspear, and the power to take it from her. She doesn't have the military strength to overpower Doran's household guard, let alone control an entire kingdom. She also has no claim to Sunspear whatsoever.

They called a great council and crowned someone who is hated by the Faith, the lords, and the smallfolk? Even if this was their explanation, it would be really stupid for them to do it off- screen. 

I'm not trying to criticize your answers, because anyone would really have to stretch to find a plausible explanation, and your answers, while bad, are as good as anything one can come up with in trying to justify the shows decisions.  My only real point us that the writing on the show has gone to complete shit since they ran out of source material. Cersei is politically spent, every fucker in Kings Landing has seen her naked and covered in en foodThat excuse wouldn't work in the books. At all.  Who do they have power over? Cersei is despised by the Lords, the faith, and the smallfolk, which is essentially every aspect of Westerosi society.  She shouldn't even have control of the Lannister army, as she's explicitly stated by tywin not to be the heir to the Rock.

Ellaria is a bastard with no land, no claim to Sunspear, and no lords who have sworn allegiance to her.  She doesnt have the military strength to ~~overpower doran's household guard, let alone~~ control an entire kingdom.I'm sure plenty of people in the show are disputing her claim and actively planning on retaliating. It's just a matter of location. Pretty much any person in KL capable of challenging Cersei was blown up. 

The common folk likely don't know the real story and would be dissuaded to revolt by the Goldcloaks for the time being. That will be a completely different story when enemies are at the gate. Its aristocracy, everyone knows their place in line to the big seat. Even if its your 12th cousin.It doesn't matter. It would likely go to someone in house Velaryon before Cersei. She has no claim whatsoever, and is hated by the smallfolk and lords alike. Well you still have 

/r/continuityporn

This and that and that and thising, having such a good time oodallally oodallally golly what a day...Ooda lolly!Lil'Sebastian ! Lol Jon and robin hood running through the forest laughing back and forth at what the other had to say.... 

WHAAAATTT????!!!!Courtesy of Jon Palmer.His son MicroJon UmberMicrojonTeeniejon is next, right?~~Apple~~ Sansa: We've discontinued our Jon line of products.Well, when they keep sucking... yes.People don't realize how bad it could be. Oh sorry, do other people's opinions bother you when they don't agree with your own? 

 
D&D hate on this sub is nothing to PJ hate. This is /r/asoiaf not /r/gameofthrones.. of course the butthurt book fan per capita is going to be high on a sub dedicated to the books.. I think the Umbers suffered in the transition between season 1 and season 2.  Season 1 was filmed without even knowing for sure if they would have a second season.  As it is, I don't think a single one of Robb's bannermen had any discernible importance in season 1 besides Greatjon Umber, and that character did not return at all.  At the start of season 2, Robb's only named bannermen are Roose Bolton and Rickard Karstark.  There's no Glovers, Mormonts, Manderlys, or Hornwoods, or anyone really, besides the houses which he will fight with, or be betrayed by.> If Sansa "learned" so much and is to politically adept now then why would she publicly disagree with Jon the way that she did?

Because she thought Jon was making a poor choice, obviously. Which he was. And several Northern lords clearly agreed with Sansa. Although the show will probably have it all work out for him for the same bullshit reasons everything's going to work out for Cersei, even though Jon isn't much smarter than her. If Jon didn't want to be questioned in public, why didn't he discuss his major decisions with her beforehand?There were some  behind the scenes shenanigans that resulted in *a lot* of the BotB being gutted. There are still hints throughout the entire season, and hell, even in the BotB episode that the Umbers were secret Stark loyalists. 

To put it bluntly, D&D wrote this massive script and gave it to Sapochnik, and he was supposed to figure out how long it was supposed to take. He through out a number like 40something days, and they only gave him around 12. A *lot* of stuff was gutted, especially since they couldn't even use the entirety of the days they got due to weather.

Theres a "secret lost ending" that the production team has talked about that probably involved the Umbers turning on Ramsay halfway through the battle, similar to how  the Manderlys plan on turning on Ramsay's army in the upcoming Battle of Ice in TWOW.It seems like they're not hesitant to use convenient TV troupes ever since they haven't had the books to fill in the details. As for the public disagreement, Sansa was acknowledging the feelings any other houses that would feel the same way. How could other houses trust these two houses that contain at least a little drop of traitor's blood with the main line of defense after the Wall? How could they send their soldiers to help fortify the castles of traitors? Jon needs unity, but he also needs his people to feel as if they have been heard, and understand his reasoning if he goes against their wishes. The houses also need to see that while they can have disagreements with their leaders, they overall need to focus on the end goal. Disagree, discuss, decide, and do it.

Some may have seen their public disagreement as political theater - I don't think it's too far-fetched for some houses to think that Sansa and Jon already came to an agreement, but they needed to play out the argument in public so the final decision made sense.Also, what did she learn from Cersei? It should be to *not* do anything Cersei would do because look at what Cersei has done to the world and herself. Because she is right. She sees the enemy, Jon sees the olive branch he's offering to them. Sands argues what she thinks is right, and as soon as Jon makes it clear he's decided she shuts up. Later, when he whines about it, she doesn't take any of his shit and also doesn't continue arguing against his decision. She's doing exactly what she should do as a high ranking advisor to a king - arguing her side, and then supporting the decision her king makes.I think they have a plan here. Karhold and Last Hearth are the first two castles that the WW will come to after EWBtS. I don't know what the plan is, but they made a point to have Jon mention these two castles and make a deal out of who holds the castles. I think Alys and Tinyjon (credit to u/SadShitlord) bite the dust, and it'll be Jon's fault for leaving children as the second line of defense. It's a clunky plan, and could have been done differently, but I think they have one.  
  
Also, Ramsay needed men in the show. It's easier to have men that are actually loyal to the Boltons (for as much as show!Smalljon and Harold Karstark were loyal) than to draw out a show version of the GNC. The Karstarks and Umbers are both recognizable and have reason to beef with the Starks. The Starks needed to be outmanned in the BotB for it to work in the show.> In the show they made out the whole house to be traitors

They did the exact opposite, though. The entire point of that scene was that a father's sins don't pass to his sons. Yes, it's a different arc and motivation than the books, but House Umber are very clearly not shown as traitors.Plus, some times hilts are hereditary. If i recall correctly, according to the tales of Joan of arc, she found the hilt of the sword of charlemagne under a church. It's probably either a myth or something the french made up to bolster morale, but it shows that hilts themselves can also have significance. The pommel of Charlemagne's sword is said to have been in thee shape of the french lily, which was a symbol of hte country from the days of the caroligian empire all the way up to the french revolution In universe anyway:

http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Longsword

http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Bastard_sword

http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/GreatswordYou're right, fewer My Little Pony mounts.Is it ever stated that's the reason? 

And bastards can be considered for succession when there's no legitimate heirs left and/or legitimised by friendly royalty.

Forgot about the Tyrells. I'll just assume that Olenna took her house troops with her when she left to ally with Dorne and Dan. The city watch all seems to be standing by her instead of defecting to others. Jaime and the Lannister army all seems to be on her side still.

For the time being, those two armies are the key power in Kings landing - if they say that someone is the monarch, someone is the monarch. Those two armies seems to hold sway in the riverlands, Stormlands, and the West, making her the queen of the three kingdoms at the very least.If conquest requires legitimacy, who/what is going to stop them?

If Cersei is feeding them and paying them, she is controlling them.The rest of Westeros recognises a right of a woman to inherit after her brothers but before her uncles. Hence Cersei inherited the Rock and not Kevan. (Its unclear if it is now Jaime's or if he just leads the army. He was in the Kingsguard when Tywin was killed)

The North passed over Sansa for several reasons as vocalised by Lyanna Mormont. Her high and mighty attitude to Lord Glover was another reason. Also bear in mind leaders of that era were meant to lead armies. Jon lead the army. Maege Mormont led the Bear Island troops as Lyanna wants to in her limited capacity right now.Doran's house guards standing by as the Sandsnakes murdered the entirety of House Martel should give you some insight into the political climate in Dorne. 

The Dornish were sick of Doran's leadership. The fact that all the guards appeared to be in on the conspiracy to murder him and clearly had prior knowledge of the events suggests that this was a much larger conspiracy, possibly even including other major Dornish houses. Ellaria was the sort of wife of Oberyn. And she herself, while a bastard, is from a rather powerful house.It's not even about claim at this point for either of them though. Cersei has the city watch and Lannister army in King's Landing, what she says goes because she is the last person they are loyal to. That might change, but it is the deal at the moment. She has money, military power, and no faith to oppose her. Her rule is about to be challenged by the Dragon Queen. Ellaria has the people on her side, in the show, they all want revenge apparently, so they were happy that Doran was dead, and because she did the dirty work I guess she gets to be the Princess of Dorne. I doubt the show will get into civil war disputes that would take place if this was real, but its a fantasy land with limited time to tell a story. Ellaria is going to join with the Dragon Queen, which gives her a very powerful friend to help enforce her rule, other nobles in Dorne are probably aware of this and rushing to support her as well I'd imagine.>  She doesn't have the military strength to overpower Doran's household guard, let alone control an entire kingdom.

in the show the Poosay Squad killed the loyal guards and the other guards just stood there. she kind of does have the strength, even if it's a weird way to seize the throne.Aren't the faith and the lords all dead now (aka, burn em all)?    What houses are left to oppose her claim to the throne? Don't get me wrong, Dorne has been handled terribly, but that's the best I can come up with. However, it does look like she controls Doran's guard when she kills him. It's sloppy and isn't explained, but Ellaria does say that his guard will watch her kill him. Which they do.We've seen female leaders in Westeros before: Visenya and Rhaenys Targaryen, Nymeria, Rhaenyra Targaryen, Olenna Tyrell, Yara/Asha Greyjoy, Lyanna Mormont so on and so forth. Female leaders aren't exactly common, but their existence isn't exactly that uncommon. Full-fledged queen would be a big step, but it isn't an unforeseeable one. 

Cersei is the head of her family, whether or not Tywin wanted her to be or not. He may not have named her heir. And the opinions of the smallfolk mean shit all. They only care when the harvests come and couldn't give a shit who was ruling. 

So that leaves the Faith. The very Faith that Cersei just blew up. So I doubt they'll be able to do much of anything about it. 

Oh wait! The Lords! However could I forget! The Starks and Arryns have aligned themselves together and are in open rebellion. Half of the Greyjoys, the Dornish and Olenna Tyrell have aligned themselves with Daenerys and are in open rebellion. The Freys are all dead and Edmure Tully is more likely to align with Jon or stay neutral than swear loyalty to Cersei. Euron Greyjoy wants to marry Cersei so that he can be King. So that just leaves the Westerlands (her native home) and the Stormlands (the native home of her recently deceased husband and two sons, the last three Kings). I don't see how it is that hard to think that the Westerlands, Stormlands, and Crownlands would stay loyal to Cersei, one they can think of as one of their own.  

So that leaves Ellaria, as the "Princess" of Dorne. A place with a history of equal treatment toward men and women due to being co-founded by a woman. Yes. Shocking that they would continue the tradition of female leaders after their previous male leader simply disgraced himself by always playing nice to the crown (we know how deep Dornish hatred for Westerosi is). Imagine how much Doran was hated by his country after his own sister was killed and he simply bent the knee. Jaime has control of the Lannister army I think, and since the Lannister troops are holding KL she can sit on the Throne and not be directly challenged. Not sure what happen in Dorne though. I guess the Sandsnakes are officially in charge.Tywin is no longer in a good shape to dictate who is the heir to the rock; legally, she is the heir and as long as the commander of the Lannister army agrees with her, she will be the head of house Lannister.It's not like the Lannisters will stop backing her now. 

They know they're all screwed over if Cersei loses this. Even if they give up Cersei to Dany on a silver plate, people will still call for the entire Lannister dynasty to lose their heads.

Mad Queen or not, it's their queen. The faith and the smallfolk got together to form a power block of their own, and Cersei blew them all up.  The Lords can and are opposing her.

Honestly I have no idea what's going on in show!Sunspear.i'm guessing part of this has to do with the kingdom's shock that the Sept of Baelor was blown sky high, and the other part is that anyone who tries to take the crown from Cersei is going to have a very bad day when they meet her ~~little~~ big friend, Sir Gregor.Golly what a Long Nightcontext

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cx_4C1cyUZA*From the Wildlings to the Wall*
Nah, it'll be Picojon, Femtojon, then Attojon.*cough* dumb nameRick and Morty is leaking again.Singlecelljon is the last one.Nanojon will marry a Dornish woman and sire Pequeñajon."You almost sound like you admire Steve Jobs."  
"I learned a great deal from him..."It was too stupid, like our previous Ned and Robb lines.Except not really lolIt seems as soon as the season started people have done more complaining about other people complaining than people have done actual complaining.

People are literally calling other people spoiled for saying they didn't like certain aspects of the premier. I don't even know why people even bother to come here if they don't want to see people disagree with them.That's kind of a logic loop. You're bothered by his opinion that he finds other people's opinions annoying.It wasn't that drastic. He estimated 28 days, and they gave him 12. Then he upped his estimate to 40 days and they gave him 24. And it probably would have been fine if not for the weather.

As for the mid-battle betrayal, I don't buy that. They wouldn't give up Rickon to be killed and then turncloak. There might have been something with the Manderlys (they did go through the trouble of casting Lord Manderly for one brief speech that could have been done by anyone).Aw man, really? I can't believe they cut thatShe just finished saying how everyone who's ever crossed Cersei has died. Don't get me wrong she's a crazy bitch, but she's ruthless and effective. Sansa wasn't saying she's a role model but she could have learnt a lot from her, what to do and what not to doCersei is the first Queen of the Seven Kingdoms. She obviously did SOME things right.Thing is, she is using  the same logic Joffrey used when he had her beaten because Rob won a battle.Not to mention, there are people in the room that agree with her. Bringing it up, unpacking it and shuffling through it means those people have their concerns addressed, it gives them a chance to speak up and be heard. The king may not decide your way, but you resent him less when he understands your concerns, and you understand his better since he's forced to explain his reasoning.

edit- added a little more to the final sentence.
 > I think they have a plan here. Karhold and Last Hearth are the first two castles that the WW will come to after EWBtS. I don't know what the plan is, but they made a point to have Jon mention these two castles and make a deal out of who holds the castles.

I think it was a way of weaving the book and show together. This way you get Alys in charge of Karhold and the Umbers still owning Last Hearth since in the books they arent traiterous. I think it's silly to think that the children will be a line of defense. They will not be left in charge of their seats. They will have experienced, of-age castellans govern for them until they grow up. Hell I was half expecting Jon to assign them as wards to another house after accepting their oath. They could have used a whole bunch of smaller houses joined with the Karstarks (like those Whitehill bastards)> The Karstarks and Umbers are both recognizable and have reason to beef with the Starks.

The Karstarks did, the Umbers no> but House Umber are very clearly not shown as traitors.

We've seen two Umber Lords actually do anything. The Greatjon was going to break his oath to House Stark all the way back in season 1 and then threatened his liege lord with a knife until Greywolf ripped his finger off. Then we see Smalljon who gave up Rickon Stark to the Boltons and fought against the Starks in battle. We haven't seen Ned Umber do anything but swear fealty whilst shitting himself.

So 2/3 Umbers are pretty traitorous and the third on hasn't done anything."Confusion with medieval "longswords"" ... I see where I got things wrong. I will admit, I can't recall them saying so in the show, but in the books and the world book it is brought up.But that's bad writing in itself, if your goal is kings landing, why take your entire army not just away from King's Landing, not just across the narrow sea, but presumably all the way to Slaver's Bay on almost the complete other side of the world?  It makes no sense as to why Dorne and The Reach would have been part of Dany's fleet at the end of S6.>who/what is going to stop them?

The Reach? Their army is larger *and* closer to KL, and Randyll Tarly is arguably the best general left in the Seven Kingdoms. Perhaps he's busy not being able to get to the Citadel though. Do you realize that your arguments against Sansa essentially directly contradict your arguments for Cersei?

I have no idea what you were trying to say regarding Lyanna Mormont. Can you clarify?Being sick of Doran is one thing. Handing Dorne over to Ellaria over it is something completely different.  Yeah I forgot about that because I avoid rewatching show Dorne. So she can overpower the household guard, but still that should be about it. All the houses that weren't at court. Which should be like 80% of them. And the ones that were are court wouldn't have had their entire families there, so their heirs would be opposing her the most vigorously.

So basically, all of them. What makes Ellia's thing stupid has nothing to do with her gender. It has to do with the fact that she's not noble, not in any way in line for ladyship, has no lands, no titles, no vassals, no troops, no nothing. It's akin to making Roz the lady of Harrenhall. When did the Lannister troops begin holding KL though? The last army we see there is the Dornish army in S6.

We last see the Lannister army at the Twins in S6E10. I'm not sure who the commander of the Lannister army is now, but up until his death it was Kevan, who definitely did not agree with her.But in the books, House Lannister has explicitly turned it's back on Cersei. I realize that's the books, but that still leaves the conundrum of the Lannister army reaching KL before the Tyrell host, which is larger, closer, and essentially directly in between. Cersei writes the Lannister army it's checks. Pretty simple to me.Cersei blew up the Vatican and nobodies rebelling or upset. Not only that, she's claiming the oldest institution in the realm for herself with no religious or otherwise political (dynastic) legitimacy. King's Landing should be in an uproar right now. The French Revolution 3.0 But Gregor, tough as he is, is one man who's already been killed once. The lords of Westeros have hundreds of thousands at their disposal.OOOOKAAAY!!!!Plancklengthjon Umber will be the Last Hero.I disagree because comment_3, while sarcastic, is actually a rebuttal to comment_2. comment_2 does not rebut comment_1, but dismisses it categorically.You know, I've actually been thinking that since I posted.. Quite the quandary. 

The only way to solve it is for me to downvote both our comments. 
 

Throughout the entire season we are confronted with scenes like "The northerners only follow Ramsay because they fear him" and in the episode itself Jon says "if they can feel the tide turning they will no longer fight by his side". Perhaps Rickon's death was created when they realized they wouldn't of had enough time to film the Umber betrayal, but I firmly believe that they ditched the Umber sub plot last minute. 

I'd venture to say that even 24 days wasn't enough. D&D was obsessed with the idea of using a *lot* of horses (I believe there was something like 70+ horses) even though it was near impossible due to 1) animal right laws that prevent things like 2 horses even touching each other on film and 2) it takes time to train horses. Hell, the entire strategy at one point of the battle was different due to D&D not really getting how long something on that scale would have taken. 

I'm happy with the final product, but a lot of stuff was gutted and the production was somewhat incompetent.Three at best.Let's not forget one of the people present is Littlefinger. If some theories of Season 7 are true, she may need him to think she is unhappy with Jon's rule to be able to lure him in to do something that will finally make him vulnerable. 
 
So this little show may be a big part for him as well.Yeah I don't understand what people have against Sansa, I thought she handled everything perfectly that episode. People should be made to defend their reasons for doing something. If Jon couldn't have justified himself then his plan wasn't good enough. He did justify it, and won over everyone in the room whilst doing it. That and the sick burns on Littlefinger and Sansa was on fire that episodeDragonstone taught us that there is no such thing as a castellan in the show-verse (see, erm, Dragonstone).Smalljon gave his reason in the show: Jon Snow inviting and ultimatley commanding a wildling army Maybe not the Starks as a whole, but with Jon they do. Jon let the wildlings through the Wall onto Umber lands. Now why did he not back Rickon against the Boltons and create a third side to the war? In universe I have no answer to that. At a meta level, because there are only so many hours that they have to pack everything into. Imagine the shitstorm of ned umber betrays Jon thoGreatjon ended up being one of Robb's most loyal bannermen once he won him over, though. They were essentially asking the Lords of the North to commit open treason against a lineage the Umbers had fought to put on the throne. 

We as viewers know Joffrey is Jaime's son, but Greatjon Umber probably doesn't. He probably thinks Joffrey is King Robert's bratty stupid kid, but Ned asked the Umbers to help him put Robert on the throne, now Ned's son is asking him to take Robert's son off the throne. 

But as soon as he realized Robb was a strong, capable leader, he accepted him as King of the North. As someone else said, he wasn't being traitorous, it was a challenge for Robb to show his strength. > The Greatjon was going to break his oath to House Stark all the way back in season 1 and then threatened his liege lord with a knife until Greywolf ripped his finger off.

That essentially happened in the books as well. It was more of a challenge than treason. 

Right, so we know that Greatjon and Smalljon ended up traitorous -- or at the very least opportunistic. And Tinyjon hasn't done anything but pledge fealty yet.

However, Jon's whole speech was that the Umbers aren't inherently traitors. This episode also spent an entire scene with the Lannister soldiers, showing us that you aren't always the same as those you're linked with.Well, yes, the show established that her grasp on the 7 kingdoms is tenuous and holds 3 loyal kingdoms at best. Doesn't mean she's not the queen just because of feudal succession rules, which is all I thought we were talking about.  I fully suspect the Lannisters will not hold the Iron Throne by the end of the series.  I'm just saying her "queendom" is legitimate by conquest at the moment.In the show, the reach is a bit disorganized after the events at the sept. There is a power vaccum over who will be the next lord of highgarden, and it isn't difficult to imagine that the claimants are more interested in internal affairs instead of Cersei.And the Reach is making to stand against Cersei.Sansa didn't blow up all of the people who would oppose her, which leaves a bunch of people to oppose her. It's been established that the North is especially a bit more sexist than the South. A woman can lead her own house, but a queen? Especially when they have the fine specimen of a Northern man as Jon Snow?I'm not arguing for or against anything. I'm stating what we saw. Sansa was passed over for those reasons. Cersei inherited without opposition.It's not that they agreed to hand it over to Ellaria, they were supporting joining the fight (for all we know, Ellaria had already been in contact with Varys about joining Dany). 

So it's not as if the houses of Dorne are giving Ellaria the throne. They are just supporting the Targaryan alliance of which she appears to be the organizer from the Dornish side. So the Dornish houses are implicit in Ellaria's scheme, but that's far from suggesting they are bending the knee to her. good decision to avoid the Dorne parts. totally inconsequential and a waste of a good half seasonThis is one of my other qualms with the show. Wasn't Kevan the head of the Casterly Rock at the time when Cersi blew up the Sept? Surely someone of the members of the Lannister army would have an issue with this.  Right, but how many of them have their shit together enough to actually challenge her claim right now? They all have to figure out their individual successions, then muster troops, and then get those troops to Kings Landing before they can challenge her claim.

Drone and Highgarden only just had their meeting to say "let's join forces and go fuck her up". 

I have a feeling that by the time the houses have all their shit together enough to try to realistically oppose The Mad (Lannister) Queen, Dany will be fucking shit up in Westeros, and they will all either declare for Dany or declare for the BrotherFucker..... while Jon stands on the sideline up north yelling "stop fighting eachother you dumbasses and help me fight the ice zombies!!!"

She was Prince Oberyn Martell's long-time and well known paramour (which unlike the rest of Westeros is an accepted and official relationship between two individuals that are unmarried). She born four of Oberyn's children. She is a bastard of House Uller, an ancient and powerful house in Dorne. She isn't just a random prostitute that made her way to Sunspear and fucked a few noblemen. 

Doran Martell would've been hated by what we know of the Dornish in the show. Unlike the books, Doran never really had much a plan that we know of or that any of the Dornish lords seemed to know of; otherwise, you would be right. IF Doran had some kind of long game plan in the show, then some Dornish lord would've had to know something and could've spoken up for Doran, but since no did, Ellaria was probably seen pretty favorably, like a Che or Ho Chi Minh type revolutionary. Due to her closeness with Oberyn, a very beloved man in Dorne, the transition was probably very easy to make. Ellaria was potentially seen as the second coming of Nymeria: a woman sent to shake off the yoke of Westerosi disrespect and make Dorne independent once again. There have been Lannister troops in KL since S1. I think it's safe to say that the entire 30,000+ strong army doesn't get shipped out to the exact same location.In the show, Jaime is the commander. In the books, Tommen is still alive, and Kevan seems to be loyal to Tommen.Tommen was still alive in the books, so sidelining Cersei was much easier. Now that she crowned herself Queen, they would have to dethrone her by force, which would remove all shreds of legitimacy they might have. Cersei is at least the mother of the King, and with the legitimacy going all screwy (The throne should go to... Who? Some minor lord nobody ever heard of?), it's better not to start infighting. But with what money? Tywin himself said that the gold mines under Casterly Rock dried up years ago. Also, the Iron Bank is most definitely not giving Cersei money, so...?Cersei ain't gonna be around long.  Yeah, the show is fucking up hard. We wouldn't have seen this in Seasons 1-3.I'm not sure if you've noticed, but there is a little bit of a resistance going on against Cersei's rule.Which is why Cersei is paranoid about being surrounded by enemies. All they have right now is the iron fleet. this is logical, but everyone in the show is absolutely terrified of her and her Queensguard. also, the realm is quite divided now and the Lannister army is good enough to at least hold King's Landing.Till the sweat drops off that wall!I'd prefer reckless ambition than by the book safety. Maybe it wasn't what it could have been, but it also was beyond any medieval style battle scene that's ever appeared on television. Sometimes when you aim to high and fail, that failure is still a success in the grand scheme.MSometimes I think it's because she's a girl who doesn't have any man-like characteristics. She isn't good with a sword and she isn't a tom-boy like Arya. She isn't a knight like Brienne. She isn't a ruler who wears pants like Dany. Instead she likes dresses, she's good at embroidery, and generally takes on a very feminine role while still wanting to voice her opinion. 

Both Sansa and Jon do need to be more communicative behind the scenes though. They both have information that may save their lives from either side of the war. I agree, though she said something in her speech that I think showed a flaw in her thinking; in reasoning why a loyal family should get the Karstark and Umber castles, she said "so there's no punishment for treason and no reward for loyalty". Her rewards are the kind that breed resentment and more war, taking from Peter to pay Paul, and it's simplistic thinking. Is there so little land in the north? No room for another castle, another sigil?Yeah having Dragonstone be unoccupied was fucking stupid. They didn't have to show the battle if they didn't want to, but they should have at least had someone reference it off-screen. But the show is all about setting up scenes to seem poignant or awe-inspiring rather than having anything make sense. So we had to have Dany and her advisors silently sauntering into an unoccupied Dragonstone rather than sending the army in first to check for enemies, booby traps, etc like any competent ruler would.Yeah, I didn't like the Umbers not siding with the Starks as much as the next guy but that is simple and very sound reasoning. The closest houses have dealt with the wildlings the most and racism against those people is rampant from the Wall to the Reach.I don't think Rickon would have addressed the Wildling issue that they were mad about, and the Northern Houses aren't going to be swayed by an obviously powerless figurehead.Wouldn't be the first kid to do so. And like the other kid, his dad also got killed by a wildling that only got south of the wall thanks to Jon. 

Actually Robb was only asking his bannermen to rescue their liege lord at first.Yeah but the Greatjon more than made up for challenging Robb and even was on Robb's war council (including when Robb wrote his will) i the books.  I think the person you replied to was trying to say that, in the show, most of what we see from the Umbers is Greatjon calling Robb out and Smalljon being a cunt.  Most don't remember Greatjon in the show being the one to call Robb as Kingindanorf.  The show mostly made the Umbers out to be a bunch of traitorous cunts.  I always loved the Umbers in the books... I'm a bit indifferent with them in the show.I mean I guess if you want to stretch legitimacy that far, you can make anyone the Lord of the Seven Kingdoms.  If the cook from the Red Keep's kitchens sneaks up to the throne room at night and declares himself king by conquest, is he king until someone deposes him the next morning?  Because he has about the same claim to the throne that Cersie does.

Was Theon the legitimate Prince of Winterfell? Because, by your logic, he would be.  And the Lannisters' current military strength gives them about the same chance of holding KL that Theon had of holding Winterfell.This *has* to be the explanation the show is relying on, but assuming Willas just doesnt exist, it kind of goes against the idea that the QoT is such a shrewd and brilliant woman. Especially since Margaery basically sent her home and told her to be ready for some shit to go down. 

Assuming Willas does exist, there should be no power vacuum and a smooth transition of power.I'm pretty sure that the North is supposed to be less sexist than the South (besides Dorne). You'd never see a woman leading troops into battle like Maege Mormont in the South (again besides Dorne).I recognize what we saw. I'm not arguing that we didn't see it, I'm saying that it makes no sense and is thus bad writing. 

What reasons? Are you saying Sansa was passed over because Lyanna was high and mighty towards Robert Glover? As to leading the troops, Sansa led her troops as much as Tywin Lannister or ~~Stannis~~ Book!Stannis ever did, and she also single-handedly turned the Battle of the Bastards from a crushing defeat into an overwhelming victory. No, Kevan was not Lord of Casterly Rock. Cersei inherits before he does. She was named Lady of Casterly Rock after Tywin's death.


In the books she even appoints Damon Lannister Castellan in her absence instead of Kevan, specifically to spite Kevan.How many of Tywin's brothers were also there?Dorne and Highgarden have already declared for Dany in the show, but they really don't need to wait for her before taking the city.  In the books Loras' older brother is Mace's heir and in the show it's presumably the QoT because we need an all female group to show how cool and progressive this medieval fantasy world is. Either way, succession in Highgarden would be extremely straightforward.In terms of inheritance and succession it is exactly as if she's a random prostitute that made her way into Sunspear. She may be loved by the smallfolk, but as you *just said* in your previous post, the opinion of the smallfolk means jack shit.

The dornish lords wanting to get rid of Doran is fine. Houses like house Yronwood or even House Ullner putting aside an easy ascension to becoming rulers of Dorne in favor of anointing a random bastard as the new princess makes absolutely no sense, no matter how many mental gymnastics you try to do. So if the majority of their force is at the Twins, and the rest is at KL, is anyone defending the westerlands? Don't the Westerlands border the Reach?I thought Kevan was dead in the books. Varys shot him.If you accept the idea that Robert claimed kingship through his Targ lineage, I'd think his next heir would be Aegon in the books, Dany in the show.THEIR PAYMENT WILL BE THE HONOR THEY FEEL TO....wait. Who's paying me to yell at this guy?It isn't obvious that the army is being paid instead of a feudal levy.Hush hush, we need Cersei to be the big bad guy, logic and rules be damned.Shouldn't the Lannister army be exhausted from losing all those battles in the war of the 5 kings, while the Dornish army is completely unscathed and right nearby? (They were in the city as recently as S6). The Lannister army should be in the Netherlands seeing as that's where all the Lords reside.

I could see her claiming the throne and essentially being immediately deposed, but they're setting it up for the depleted lannisters to actually be a force in a ground war against the Reach, the Riverlands, Dorne, the Unsullied, and the Dothrakki.  Even with the ironborne, the Dornish should be able to solo them without getting anywhere near a boat.

The whole situation just makes no sense- and everything making sense is what the books and thus the show built their fan bases on.
Til all these Wildlings crawl*All the kneelers crawl!*She's definitely got that southron taint to her. I think reconciling her Stark heritage with everything she's been put through will be an important part of her character moving forward. She was already the least Stark kid from the beginning, and scenes like this show a lot of her development up to this point. Hopefully her and Jon can meet somewhere in the middle. She's not wrong when she says that doing the honorable thing hasn't ended well for the recent StarksYeah, obviously I would have preferred Smalljon-Tormund power alliance, but I can't deny that the logic of Smalljon turning against Jon is consistent. That makes a lot of sense.Oh no, Ollie pt. 2I agree that the small Jon was a cunt in the show, however I think the show handled theirs and the Karstarks betrayal pretty well. Rickon and Osha dying was pretty shitty but the show only has so much time to do everything I could understand why the Umbers would be pissed that Jon just let a bunch of wildlings through the wall. Well I mean I think we both know how far I was stretching it.  She blew up the sept destroying the faith and some of her biggest enemies in one fell swoop.  She didn't just sit on the throne like a sneaky cook in the night, she made a massive power play that worked.  No one has any idea what her capabilities are or how much wildfire she has at her disposal or they would have been prepared for what happened.  Sure, the army might not be enough, but it also boils down to what her enemies believe her strength is and I have no doubt the show will bear out that when the war comes to King's Landing, she won't be as easily toppled as you're suggesting.But Willas doesn't exist - QoT said that Cersei stole the future of her house by naming Loras to the kingsguard and making Margery Queen.

Besides, of all the things that QoT was planning for, I doubt the total destruction of her entire family and its key retainers is what she was preparing for.No you mixed up what I said. The reasons Sansa was passed over were on display when they went looking for troops last season. When she saw Lyanna it was pointed out she was a Bolton and a Lannister and whatever else. Sansa said she did it to survive, Lyanna does not care. When Sansa says to Lord Glover that he swore an oath his must fulfil Glover is offended because his family died for Robb, and the Starks did nothing to get rid of the Ironborn when they invaded. She acts entitled to something unearned. She came across very badly to the bannermen.

How do you reckon Sansa led her troops as much as Stannis or Tywin did. We never saw Tywin in battle that is true but he was right there at the front at Blackwater. Stannis was on the front line in the Blackwater, had to be dragged away. Stannis went sword to sword at Winterfell. Sansa was there in Winterfell when the Vale rushed in but at a safe distance with Littlefinger unarmed. 

As far as we are aware Cersei has had no trouble with the Lannister bannermen. Her family is also in a much stronger position in the Westerlands at the time.4, one sailed to Valyria, one died in the sept/crossbowed. Not sure about the other twoYeah, the succession comment was mainly about other houses.   Obvious the QoT runs shit, and has been running shit for a long time... no complications there.

but who's in charge of the riverlands (what frey's are left? And can that Frey make a claim and hold it)? , and who's in charge of the stormlands? (Are there any Baratheon's left? Will Gendry finally stop rowing?)

The North (Jon) and the Vale (littlefingerer) are tied up preparing for the ice zombies

The westernlands (Lannisters) are obviously backing the crown.

Dorne and Highgarden have teamed up with Dany to challenge Kings Landing, but they have only had time to make an alliance, they still haven't had a chance to take any action yet. Dany literally just sat down at the planning table.

So who is left to challenge anything happening in Kings Landing right now? 

Cersei is gonna stay on that throne until someone has enough time to get enough troops to Kings Landing to push her out

 (or until Jamie has finally had enough and kills her.... which I think, if it happens, will strongly echo his killing of the Mad King - as in "enemies at the gate, and the monarch is about to destroy the city on a 'if I can't have it no one can' angle")



The Dornish lords already were fine with allowing Nymeria to rule them and let other women rule them. Are we really saying that they are that hung up on were Ellaria comes from? 

She is potentially seen by the Lords of Dorne, not just the smallfolk as a new Nymeria. 

The North just said they were cool with a Bastard becoming their King. The Westerosi accepted the Baratheons become a great House despite being started by a rumored bastard. Daemon Blackfyre was very well liked by at least half of Westeros, smallfolk and lords. 

Women leaders are common in Dornish culture, plus we know for a fact that someone being a bastard means about to the Dornish men. So I think if a female came around and killed the disgraced Lord Doran, they might look very favorably upon her, especially given that she was the paramour of a respected man like Oberyn. I doubt that the *majority* are at the Twins. Most likely the majority are in the Westerlands, then KL, and then the the Riverlands with the least amount.wasn't it Varys' little birds?  stabbing, IIRCWe haven't really had the time to see how that will play out politically yet.Well Robert claimed the throne with his hammer. The whole "my great-granny was a Targ" thing is just to quell the concerns of some of the more rigid Lords.I will tell you. For money...They are professional soldiers. They are being paid. Feudal levies aren't equipped like Lannister soldiers are equipped.> and everything making sense is what the books and thus the show built their fan bases on.

But now they've built that show fan base up with enough casual viewers who don't actually care about anything but spectacle, so fuck it.This is probably my biggest question with the show. I'll give the show that the Lannisters had the largest army at the start of the War of Five Kings, but they fought a multi front war for years. They have to be pretty depleted from the Wars in the North and the Blackwater. The soldiers of the Reach were keeping them powerful, now not only have they lost them, but they are going against them. Throw in the unscathed Dornish, and everyone Danny is brining to the table, and it should be no contest. I'm sorry but even with 'half' of the Iron Islands this shouldn't be much of a challenge for Danny. i don't have a lot of references to back this up, but aren't the Lannisters the 2nd most powerful/largest after the Tyrell army?

they're going to be protecting the 3 major bases of power for the Lannisters: King's Landing, Lannisport and Casterly Rock. the last of which appears to be assaulted by Danaerys in the show previews.

basically, the situation is dire, but anyone who goes at her alone is going to be bloodied as hell in the outcomeaw skeet skeet, oathbreaker!! aw skeet skeet, gods damn!!It's not like they have a dearth of recognisable northern houses to work with either, can't blame them at all for using what they had. As much as I hate to see the beastliest house in the North turning coat it made senseOh I'm sure she won't be toppled easily. Because the show will not prioritize continuity, consistency, or logic the way the books would. I'm confident that the show, even after establishing that the tyrells gave the largest army in the Seven kingdoms, completely unhurt by war while the Lannisters and all of their supporters have an army that's been severely diminished by fighting (and losing) countless battles in the war of the 5 kings for years, will magically give the Lannisters a ground force capable of going toe to toe with not just the Tyrells, but also the Dornish, the Dothraki, the Unsullied, and probably the North too, because why not.  The show will do this, and it'll be stupid then just like what we've been discussing is stupid now.That's what I was thinking, but i couldn't remember if his nonexistence was ever specifically alluded to on screen. Still, House Lannister lost its head (Kevan) and presumably his closest retainers as well. There's no reason that Cersei should be able to consolidate power over the westerlands from the opposite side of the country quicker than the QoT could from within Highgarden, particularly with all the baggage that comes with Cersei since her imprisonment.I guess that's true about show Stannis, but in the books i always thought it was a pretty clear dichotomy that the vainglorious leaders (Robert B, Robb, Jaime) lead from the front while the cunning leaders (Tywin, Stannis, Roose) lead from the rear and coordinate the battle the way real-world generals would. Book Stannis lead from the rear, which is why he survived.  I sometimes forget the minor details in the show and replace them with those of the Books. 

Anyway, your argument regarding her tour of the North makes some sense as to why Sansa would have a tough time winning support, but still not as to why they'd choose Jon. Jon had essentially just marched a bunch of lords out to risk their lives, then single-handedly  handedly blown their battle plan to bits before being rescued by - you guessed it - Sansa. But why is Highgarden waiting around? They can conquer KL alone before the Lannister army gets there, *and* are large enough to presumably easily defeat the Lannister host in the field, without even needing to use Castles. 

I have left>Are we really saying that they are that hung up on were Ellaria comes from?

 100% yes. Things like feudal succession are fundamental pillars of this ASOIAF. The people of Westeros, including Dorne, take this stuff extremely seriously. In many ways this is what the *entire series* is about. 

>She is potentially seen by the Lords of Dorne, not just the smallfolk as a new Nymeria.

Where are you getting this? Where in the show is anything like this ever implied?  If not,  is the story of Nymeria ever even mentioned? If Not, it's bad writing. I believe it was actually both.And keep in mind that nobody ever calls Robert a kinslayer, so this idea that Robert took the throne through his blood connection clearly isn't seriously considered by most people.Yerp.  The Dragons alone should end this swiftly. They're fucking huge in the show.The seed is strong!Jaime is the natural and historical leader of the Lannister forces, and Cersei is by law the heir. beyond these two, there is no one else for the Lannister armies to gravitate to. The situation in the reach is different.I wouldn't argue that dichotomy exists. Bobby B won battles, he was a figurehead, he was a beast, he was an inspiration to his men. This is directly contrasted in his later years. Robb never lost a battle. Jaime is hailed as the greatest swordsman in Westeros. These are people songs are made for because of their heroism and bravery. 

I don't think we can compare to Roose, he always had another game playing in the War of the 5 Kings that didn't involve Robb winning. He sent Robb's forces on suicide missions in the book. 

In the medieval era, kinds would wear crowns on their helmet so their troops knew where the king was. If the King fell it was all over. But it was more important for the king to be seen than the risk of him being singled out. Its why Elizabeth I made that speech in armour on the eve of the Spanish Armada. She couldn't physically fight but she had to inspire her troops as if she was there. Both Richard III and Henry VII fought in the Battle of Bosworth. As Jon said last season, leading from the front is to show your men you are willing to die for the cause as you expect them to die for the cause too. 

The Lannisters don't already have troops in kings landing?    I thought they've been there for a while nowWe know the story of Nymeria is in the show because of the name of Arya's dog. She is also mentioned in "Histories & Lores", which are available on the DVDs/Blu-Rays as special features. 

I think it is a possibility at least. It helps me make it less confusing at least. "We, the modern viewing audience, know this is a dope and swell idea."

Not really.  There really aren't a lot of countries that draft women during wartime because any country that did wouldn't be a country for very long.  90% of your male population can die in a war and the other 10% can still repopulate the next generation because one man can impregnate a lot of women.  If 90% of the women die, on the other hand, your demographics cannot recover.Jon is the "in the right" character right now because he's the king, and he's a decent one, not a mad one. His ideas have to be held to be right because of his authority. It's mostly a coincidence that they line up with our viewer morality, everything Jon does is to best prepare for the walkers. The Walkers are the only ones that can take away what Jon really wants. Cut the cape and the sword off him and he's just the bastard son that wanted to sit with his family at dinner. He doesn't care so much about the throne or the power, he just wants a place to live and family/friends. I think Sansa reveals her bias every time she refers to the Bolton army as "Ramsay." First of all, it was all of House Bolton. Secondly, Roose was in charge for most of it. Third, imagine how Sansa sounds to the soldiers who have barely an idea who Ramsay is. They never met him, only saw him from a hundred yards away. Sansa sounds like a spiteful ex girlfriend who can't see the bigger picture and set her personal vendetta aside. Not that she didn't make some good points. 

The thing that took me out of the scene was when this medieval society skipped 1500 years of feminist progress in 2 minutes. The show has a tendency to exaggerate the moments when women seize power and freedom. They exaggerate it to the point that it's inconsistent with the setting. This is a society that trades its 14 year old daughters to 50 year old husbands in forced marriages to form political alliances. Or it was supposed to be. Lyanna is going to put a spear into the hands of all capable Mormont women and children I guess. Not the ones who volunteer but all of them. Really? The other Houses are expected to do the same, and they accept that in silence apparently.

The show thinks a strong woman is a woman who acts like a man, ignoring the fact that most women don't want to act like a man. They want to act like a woman. And sometimes they can swing the outcome of a war using a needle and thread just as well or better than with a sword.I agree that the books present Jon with more nuance, and I like how he's presented there more. In the books he feels like a child who's had to grow up fast, but he's still figuring things out; in the show, he's nothing but confidence and leadership. 

I also think that's true for the show in a more general sense: villains are more evil and heroes are more pure. (e.g. Arya doesn't kill a Night's Watch deserter, but a pedophile/murderer). Cersei is the only character I can think of with more nuance in the show compared to the books. 

However, I still think Sansa was right in the first argument. Forgiveness is good and punishing innocent children is bad, but why do these noble children deserve wealth and power more than other children? Tradition and blood lines? If the show was trying to paint a black-and-white picture, it didn't work for me this time; Sansa made a stronger argument. I think that while Jon could be right, it's not really handled well, in the ways you mentioned.  He's sort of right, but for the wrong reasons.  It's really cheap.

Like, for instance, sparing the Umbers and Karstarks.  He could have countered by saying (1) the sins of the father shouldn't be passed down, but also (2) mercy is important, as both have been loyal houses to the Starks before, and (3), he will have some sort of reprisal or demand some sort of family member to live at Winterfell, something.  (2) is the reason the Karstarks revolted: their head was beheaded rather than allowed to take the Black.  Etc..

I really hope this trend cheap writing doesn't continue.  **Even if Jon faces mutiny in the next episode, it would be cheap: we don't see the seeds nor framing of it from this episode that would make such political backfire satisfying.**  It's just not presented well.Damn, this was pretty spot on. I didn't even realize itFor a moment, I thought they were playing good cop/bad cop on their bannermen. :)Honestly, I was quite annoyed with Jon , Sansa's advice was mostly great  if there wasn't an army of the dead , but Jon just not punishing the umbers or karstarks at all because of the undead armies isn't sound at all ,  yes he says he won't punish sons for the crimes of their father or take a family home away from the people who've lived in it for centuries and that's fair enough IMO , however the best solution was the middle ground with Sansa's, reward loyalty, strip some of the land away from those families, don't not punish them , have you forgotten about Rickon ffs , I mean they really should have at least mentioned Rickon when deliberating what to do about the Karstarks and Umbers.  It's clear Rickon was a plot device not a character now . 


Also I've seen people say that Jons decision was how northern politics works and why people were fiercely loyal to Ned , that only applies to the books as far as I'm concerned because how many houses fought for the Starks against the Boltons , not many because the north doesn't remember or only when it suits them  in the show , they pledged loyalty to Jon after the battle of the bastards, that ain't loyalty that's hopping on the bandwagon . He was perfectly right to forgive the lords after the battle , he didn't have a choice . He was wrong however to forgive the Umbers and Karstarks without any consequence 
In this situation Jon is absolutely correct.  Stripping the Umbers and Karstarks of their homes is stupid.  Exactly who is she planning on giving them too?  The Northmen refused the call.  The Wildlings being given Northern strongholds would be a huge political mistake.  Valemen holding Last Hearth and Karhold would probably be frowned upon as well.  And if she does want to give castles to supporters, she still has Hornwood and the Dreadfort laying around.  Tywin Lannister said it best, "When your enemies defy you, you must serve them fire and steel.  When they go to their knees, however, you must help them back to their feet."  Those two kids are going to be Jon Snow's most loyal bannermen going forward.  Jon is also right that she needs to not undermine him.  Sansa has no leadership experience whatsoever, and while I'm sure he will listen to her counsel in private, in front of the Lords of the North and the Vale they need to present a united front.  Your rant reminded me a bit of when Arya kills Trant in the shows, how they shove it down your throat that he's a baddie. I guess the shows have to dumb it down for most of their audience and go overboard to make sure everyone is feeling the same thing about the major characters. 

I think the threat Sansa is worried about is Cersei corrupting these houses.  It's a weak point in the defenses since these houses are in such turmoil.  Whereas if Jon would have appointed two new extra trustworthy heads of the house, they would be less susceptible to Cersei.Jon has made mistakes before, and he'll make them again. 

He was foolish in allowing Ramsay to provoke him into a losing battle, he nearly got himself killed by charging into battle against Karl and the others, he tried to break his oath but was stopped by his friends, he was unable to see the line he was drawing between his own men by making unpopular opinions on the Wildlings and got himself killed for it. 

Jon's actions and mistakes have consequences, he would've been dead several times over if he didn't have loyal friends and family. Bran saves him from Locke, Sam saves him from treason, Sansa saves him from Ramsay, Melisandre straight up brings him back to life. 

He's not always "right," there was no "right" answer to who would get the Umber's castle, either opinion is valid, but Jon's reasoning and ability to act like a leader making a decision was what caused the other lords to back his decision. 

Having the women fight isn't the "right" opinion, the idea of having half of your population crafting weapons, growing food, and training horses for your army is just as valid as having a full fighting force. But Jon's reasoning and ability to convince the other lords to back his idea is why he's a good leader, once more. 

I just respectfully disagree with your post, OP. Anyone else agree with Sansa though? I'd have punished the Umbers and Karstarks as well. If not taking their castles away, then some of their vassals/territories instead. Sansa doesn't appear obsessed with vengeance to me, her rationale is sound and there is modern historical precedent that can be analogized to the situation: the aftermath of the American Civil War. 

The radical republicans wanted the former slave owners to be stripped entirely of their property and given to the freed slaves but when Johnson took over as president he adopted a, "forgive and forget" approach to his old friends and let them get their property and wealth back - this ended up being a dire mistake in the reconstruction era as those former plantation owners immediately went to work undoing all the gains made by the Union victory and adoption of the 13th/14th/15th amendments; this approach also emboldened maniacs like Nathan Forrest and Wade Hampton III to form the Ku Klux Klan and the Red Shirts.

I don't think this will happen in the show as there's only.. 13 episodes left(?). Point being Sansa is postulating a good argument in giving the ancestral homes to other, loyal, families. Loyal families who, though they may be okay with it now, may end up harboring some deep seated grudge for getting nothing out of their loyal support.I think reading Jon v Sansa requires a bit more nuance, because he was also very "pragmatic and Right" about fighting Ramsay with the men they had, but it was Sansa's machinations that won them that fight (and Jon knows & acknowledges it willingly). Likewise it will take time to figure out if Sansa was ultimately right about forgiving the Umbers and Karstarks.>(It happens again, by the way, with Jon's suggestion to arm the women of the north. We, the modern viewing audience, know this is a dope and swell idea. It's cool and good! It is! Who disagrees? A grumpy old man. And who agrees with him here? Not Sansa - Lyanna Mormont, a little warrior girl, who scoffs at the girls knitting by the fire. It's Cool to fight. It's Good to be like Brienne of Tarth, who is constantly cut to during this scene).

Could not agree more. I cringed at this. I like that they're trying to inject equality into the world...but IMO it doesn't fit. Not really, anyway. I'm not going to go down the road of arguing how a mixed-gender army would have worked in medieval times...but suffice it to say I think there's probably a good reason you didn't see a whole lot of that during those times. In a seige (where the enemy is invading,) I can definitely see it, but not a large, mobilized army. Not to sound like a sexist or anything, but if we're being somewhat realistic I think you have to realize that there'd be significant supply-chain issue that would come about from having roughly 70% of the population fighting; even 30% of the population fighting would put a severe strain on the logistics network. To be fair I don't know if Jon is so universally correct with his reasoning of letting the Umbar and Karstark kids keep their castles. Perhaps this is also due to my own particular modern perspective.

Those kids may have not done anything wrong, but it's not like they deserve owning a freaking castle and lordship and servants and all the privileges they were born into, either, just because of their last names. It can be argued that no one really "deserves" that(yeah yeah, modern anti-feudal/commie perspective), and that whoever gets those perks far above their fellow man might as well get it for some practical effects.

Which Sansa actually gave. Use it as a reward incentive for people who have actually done positive for your cause. Even just getting away from moral ideas of "fairness", fairness is in itself a very practical policy to employ when trying to coordinate a lot of people into doing something specific. Show that you reward people doing a good job of coordinating for your cause, and that's that much more incentive for everyone else to also want to do so.Making women fight, especially in a medieval type setting is moronic. People who find it "cool and empowering" have no clue what value women have, and even more so, had through history.

I understand that in a potentially apocalyptic event, you need as many fighters as you can muster, but women are not as physically capable as men and as such are less likely to survive a fight.

Wanna know why women didn't fight our battles? Why women aren't "supposed" to do physically demanding and dangerous jobs, risking their lives?

Because a single woman is worth several men when it comes to the survival of our kind.

A woman can have a single child at a time, a single child that she risks her life having, while a single man can have several children at the same time. So we need as many women as absolutely possible.

If you have a group of people with 75% men and only 25% women I guarantee you that tribe will diminish in population and die, while the reverse would result in a rapid population growth.

(edit. I understand that this is a fantasy apocalypse and if they dont fight there might not be any population left at all, but it was more in regards to OP's "how cool and blahblah" it is for women to fight)Sansa was not set up as the "wrong-ass individual." She, just like the Maesters, downplays the threat of the Others because of the Wall, and because she hasn't experienced them yet. On the other hand, she knows Westeros politics far better than Jon, and advises him based on that knowledge. Her call about rewarding loyal houses with Karhold and the Last Hearth might seem wrong, after all Jon won back two large and historically loyal houses, but there's no way of knowing whether either heir harbors a grudge against the Starks for killing their fathers/uncles. In fact, throughout Westeros history, it was more common practice to strip disloyal houses of their lands, even if it had been theirs for centuries, so Jon is breaking tradition. Also, Sansa's advice regarding Cersei is spot on and Jon might rue ignoring it. Cersei/the Lannisters have already demonstrated that they don't need their army to topple houses (Starks/Tullys/Tyrells). I think that part of the beauty of this scene is that for me it is not that obvious that Jon is 100% right and Sansa is 100% wrong. In a slightly different scenario (for instance., if the heirs to such houses were not small kids), this type of mercy could come back to bite Jon in the ass. See what good it did Robb not to depose the Karstarks from Karhold – the Karstark heir decided to betray the Starks at the first opportunity.

I understand that Jon is not wrong for being concerned about the Night’s King and making a good faith effort to unite the North against them, but Sansa is also not wrong in pointing out that allowing traitors to have castles and weapons is not exactly a good idea – see, Sansa is not advocating for executing the kids, but to give their lands to someone else. From her perspective, it could be an opportunity to award castles to some minor lords in the Vale and start to get a hold on control over the Vale through her own merits.


So, ultimately each scenario had its own merits and disadvantages and represent different world views. It was a judgment call and Jon, as the king, made his decision, which he is entitled to do. But I certainly don’t see that the show made it look like Jon is the ultimate lord of the good decisions. 


(and personally I believe that Sansa’s public disagreement with him is a little show for the sake of fooling Littlefinger, but that is a different story).
I disagree slightly. I think they presented Sansa well. She knows things Jon doesn't and her line about Ned/Robb being good and honorable but dumb was correct. Jon knows that, too. They both had excellent points. Sansa knows Cersei and Cersei will wreck havoc as long as she's alive. Jon knows that the Night's King is coming. Jon is noble, good but doesn't realize that he won't be able to stand against the Night's King if Cersei finds a way to kill him. > In the second S/J argument, Sansa argues that Cersei is a threat to the North. We, the viewer, know this is probably ridiculous. Moat Cailin, the Twins, the Neck, and winter itself stand in Cersei's way. Even D&D, in the inside-the-episode segment, laugh about this idea of Cersei coming north. Of course she's not going to march north
> 

This doesn't work because Sansa knows that Cersei is batshit insane and might just do that just to spite her: she hates Sansa after all I don't think Sansa was suggesting the Lannister army was the threat.  I feel like she was suggesting that the cunning was the threat.  That Cersie would find a way to get Sansa and Jon killed cause they are her enemies.  With which she has a very good point.I don't think is what was going on in this episode's scene. I think it was meant to appear as if they both had good points while reiterating the current situation: Jon is in command but Sansa is being pressured by Littlefinger to take control.

I don't think we were meant to see Jon as pure and correct here or for Sansa to have a "wrong ass opinion."You're seeing what you want to see. The show doesn't paint Jon as having perfect intuition. I kind of agree with Sansa that Karstark and Umber should have been punished for siding with Ramsay, i think that a lot of the other lords probably agree with her, and i think that down the road this is going to bite him in the ass.  Just because he gets his way doesnt mean that he is right, and just because there are no immediate consequences does not mean that there will not be any consequences.  Jon's decision making process is pretty much the same in ADWD.  He listens to Bowen et al, thanks them for their counsel, and then goes on to do the exact opposite of what they advised.  The funny thing is is that they could've just combined both of Jon and Sansa's ideas: the allies marry Alys and Ned, who remain lords of Karhold and Last Hearth.

You could even make Jon be "good" by him publicly reaffirming them as lords like he did, and then declare that because they're their own lords marriage pacts fall to them and if anybody wishes Last Hearth or Karhold they're welcome to make their proposals to them.Jon's whole thing is that he's the only one who doesn't care much for the strife within the realm because he knows that the only fight that really matters is that of the living against the dead. To that end, he's willing to set aside pretty much all grudges and grievances because he knows that any further fighting between men is a waste of lives that will be much needed in the true war to come. 

We the audience know he's right to do so because we have the advantage of knowledge and impartiality, but Jon's approach doesn't always work. His willingness to promote Alliser Thorne when he could've sent him away, and his decision to set aside thousands of years of hatred between the Night's Watch and the Wildlings and let them pass south ended up getting him every bit as murdered as Ned and Robb. Were it not for Melisandre happening to be at the Wall at that time, he'd just be another dead Stark. I just think John's way makes more sense most of the time.  Aside from a few instances he has been pretty spot on with his decision making and even in the book its pretty consistent.  In the case of the scene of the disagreement of the Karstarks and Umbers holdings, I really think this was more of Sansa trying to prove something to Littlefinger than trying to be right about something with John.  Every time they are in the great hall discussing matters when John speaks and someone responds there is always a cut over to Littlefinger to see his reaction.  She is fighting littlefinger from his manipulations, however, each time she doesn't win an argument or John receives more support it makes it that much more difficult to keep up her strong, intelligent, and powerful persona that she shows Littlefinger each time they are in private.  Littlefinger is trying to coerce to follow him in his plan.  If she doesn't he is nothing more than the small lord that he has always been. I copy and pasted my comment from another thread - 

IMO, Sansa's way had some merit if the White Walkers weren't coming.

I didn't see that Jon/Sansa dispute as a matter of right and wrong, it was a matter of philosophical differences and how each of them learned leadership.

Sansa learned from watching Littlefinger, Margery, Olenna, Cercei and Roose.
Jon learned from LC Mormont, The Halfhand, Mance, Davos and Stannis.

Two different upbringings, for sure.Technically Jon DID reward the loyal men who followed him. The wildlings (former enemies) were given castles along the wall. A clear step up from Hardhome. Mormont and the other small houses that followed early could have stood to gain some, BUT consider where the spoils of war are located. Those other houses already have lands and homes that are further from the front lines than the Karstark / Umber lands. With so many dead and winter here expansion is not a critical concern. 

A debt owed in perpetuity for showing mercy and more warm bodies is the better call.

Where did you watch the inside the episode?Unfortunately, it is the nature of Television. Jon has been set up as "The hero" of the series since the Beginning.  And this is just one more example of this.I wouldn't say he is always in the right. He foolishly ran right into battle during the Battle of the Bastards and probably caused more death than necessary (Sansa carries some of the blame also though). He spent some time in the first season being kind of a brat to the other recruits.

Honestly Sansa actions were pretty in line with her character. She is cynical because of what happened to her at KL, but still very ignorant. She continues to believe that people should listen to her advice on topics she knows very little about. It shouldn't come as a surprise that she would provide forceful yet poor council. I don't think her comments were made just so Jon could look right.> The thing that took me out of the scene was when this medieval society skipped 1500 years of feminist progress in 2 minutes. 


Ehhhhh, I see what you're saying, but it's also important to note that almost all patriarchal societies in history have been known to arm their women (and sometimes children) when they are running out of men, or when they are in dire need every able-bodied person to be holding a weapon. It's not THAT unusual. This war has been going on for YEARS now, including dwindling supplies and funds throughout Westeros. MANY of those who haven't died in battle have starved. Desperate times call for desperate measures. It's unlikely that women will suddenly be considered equals once the fighting dies down. But this is an exceptional situation for everyone involved.

Little Lady Mormont's "knitting by the fire" comment was exactly right: are the women in these situations to be expected to hang around inside while their homes are sacked, and wait to be raped/murdered/whatever? Maybe a few of them. But I'd wager most women would rather pick up a pitchfork and go down swinging.Give it to the minor houses that helped Jon out at the Battle of the Bastards. It sets a bad precedent to the various houses that are following Jon, where loyalty isn't rewarded and treason isn't punished. You don't have to go full fire and blood on the Karstark and Umber families, but letting them off basically scot-free after the war is absurd. Sure it buys their loyalty, but it starts making other houses question their loyalty to a house that it seems from this precedent, doesn't properly reward them. And it's not like the other houses are completely loyal to the current Stark family; it's clear their just jumping on the victory and switching sides, so you can't just pull something like this and not expect to raise serious doubts in those houses. Maybe if this was the books where the houses were more staunch supporters of Starks, but not in the show. You have two fallen families as friends, but every other house might question why should they follow a Lord who rewards enemies instead of allies.

I seriously doubt Tywin would do what Jon did. He rewards his allies; the Freys were new rulers of Riverlands Boltons of the North, etc. Even if they surrendered, he wouldn't give back a families houses after defeat without wards/hostages, recomposition, something. 

And I seriously doubt Jon went over this with Sansa beforehand which is likely why she voiced her concerns at the table. It was a bad move undermining his authority, but he left her no choice if she wanted to express her opinion before it was too late. She doesn't appear obsessed with vengeance to me either. I think she just has a lot less innate faith in other people to unite for the greater good or to do the right thing. Sansa's experiences have shown her time and time again that you can't trust anybody. It seems reasonable that her opinion on the subject would reflect that. Additionally, she was raised to be a Lady (ruling at least over her own house one day, probably a large and famosu one) and after that, to potentially be a queen. After that fell apart, she spent a lot of her time in Court observing the goings-on of government while things were coming apart and everybody was getting killed and betrayed. Her broader view (possibly ignoring the lower-rung people in this equation) makes sense. 

Jon, however, is ever the reluctant leader. He leads because he has to, and because other people keep putting him up to it. But he leads from the perspective of somebody who was nobody to begin with, and he sees all his men as brothers, as individuals, as equals except for the fact that they are choosing to stand "below" him. It makes sense to me that he would therefore have more empathy toward those individuals, and have a less Raised to Probably Be Royalty outlook. (Sansa was also taught to look at houses/clans as monoliths, as opposed to groups of individuals.) That and the whole sins-of-the-father thing. That seems integral to his character, believing that a person makes their own choices, that they are individuals who define themselves, and they are not responsible for the choices of their parents.

I think they both made good and valid points and that Jon made the right (and most ethical) call ultimately, but Sansa's suggestion is not at ALL out of line with what would normally happen in this kind of situation. She's not obsessed with vengeance, she just knows that this is "how it usually works." She's thinking about governing, and Jon is thinking about uniting everybody to save them all.> but it's not like they deserve owning a freaking castle and lordship and servants and all the privileges they were born into, either, just because of their last names. It can be argued that no one really "deserves" that(yeah yeah, modern anti-feudal/commie perspective), and that whoever gets those perks far above their fellow man might as well get it for some practical effects.

In real life, in the modern world, I TOTALLY agree with you. But Sansa and Jon value Winterfell so deeply that it makes sense that at least one of them would empathize and disagree with kicking an entire clan out of their ancestral home over a few individuals. So from their perspectives, the point that you make (which again, I generally agree with) probably hasn't even occurred to them.Within the context of the show, Jon's drawing inspiration directly from the Wildlings in training the women to have some martial proficiency. My inference of Jon's order was to train the women for self-defense purposes, not for long-distance marching. I see this as a historical parallel to the [onna-bugeisha](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Onna-bugeisha) of medieval Japan. I agree as far as a medieval setting goes, don't think I agree in a modern setting though. A woman can pilot a fighter jet just fine and that doesn't take physical strength. Also, women would be needed to do a lot of the support roles now that every able-bodied man and older boy is focused on defense. 

There are still animals that need tending and butchering to feed the troops. Still need someone to sew the actual tents they will sleep in and make the furs they'll cover themselves in to protect from the cold. It doesn't matter how many fighters you have if they die, starving in the cold.Its probably something where the right solution lies in between. Alliances can still be made with the Vale by having the re-instated lordlings marry to a Vale house, thus maintaining continuity of the line and forging new alliances.I agree.  I think if we didn't have the scene on the walls afterward with Jon and Sansa speaking more calmly, it would have been much more black and white as the OP described.If she is batshit insane and tries to invade the north in winter then she is going to die. Yeah, seriously, Cersei is crazy enough to try and attack the North. What has she got to lose? Right. Jon can't grasp that Cersei won't come at them with an army. Despite the fact that his father/uncle and brother/cousin were murdered through subterfuge and machinations and not combat on the field of battle. Despite the fact that he himself was murdered not on the field of battle but by his brothers of the Nights' Watch. Jon should really fucking know better by now.I feel like too many of the reactions have been that Sansa doesn't care enough about the attacks coming from beyond the wall. She is focused on both and understands that any weaknesses Jon creates now will be exploited by Cersie who either doesn't yet believe or care about the white walkers and will cripple the north's defense for her own benefit even if it leads to a grave threat for the realm.That doesn't really help the situation much though. They are about to be over run by the dead. Their time is better spent preparing the North than acting paranoid over what Cersei might do.Most of us agree that Sansa had some very good points, she's just not in the position to do much about them.That's pretty cruel, Alys and Ned didn't do anything wrong.  They didn't make their father's decisions.  Now that they are the "Lords" of their castles and have been spared losing their homes, all of the remaining fighting age men and women of their lands (who rely on them as their lords btw and have a good amount of allegiance to their lords) will follow their current lord's orders.  Now that they have been allowed to keep their homes they will be among the most fiercely loyal houses in the North.  Jon did the right thing.Yes in ADWD every chapter was:

Jon: "I'll do something you won't like"

Night's Watch: "Don't do it"

Jon: I did it.

Night's Watch: cringes 

Repeat until Jon gets killed.This is actually prob the best idea, assuming you have good candidates within reasonable age ranges. Taking away the holdings would be a terrible disgrace and turn much of the North against you. To kill/execute a betraying Lord is one thing. To take away a holding that has stood centuries of war and betrayals is another.Little Ned looks like he's eight and he just got done freeing his own sister from a bad marriage.Excellent point. 
He could even have made the point of marrying Alys to... one of the wildlings! (I wonder where this idea would have come from...)


Honestly, though - she (and Jon) would be better off if married to one of the other lords, a cadet branch of the other houses or something. If the show was 100% realist and the views of the northern houses about wildlings remain the same, even Jon's decision to give him castles of the Night's Watch would be a problem for him in the future. We probably won't have time to deal with the consequences of this decision, but it was exactly the type of decision that led Jon to be for the watch'ed.I don't buy it. If Jon was so concerned with ending petty squabbles, he would have stripped at least the Karstarks of their titles and lands. No one would have complained, and he wouldn't have to worry whether Karhold were to reject any orders from Jon to provide troops to the war for the dawn. Nor would he end up in a situation were Cersei's troops had suddenly gained a castle in the North.

Giving Karhold to someone who has demonstrated his faith in Jon, would have been the more pragmatic and best shortsighted option - which matters more than Jon's reputation in the long run.        > His willingness to promote Alliser Thorne when he could've sent him away

Is Alliser one of the conspirators in the books?Theoretically, i am of the belief Mel had nothing to do with Jon's resurrection, she just happened to be in the right place and give the right man hope to make a smart decision to hold his body for safe keeping aka waking up time. From her point of view maybe. But it's the wrong decision. Hate breeds hate. Jon is breaking the cycle. What would taking away those castles really accomplish? Some short term success, but long term... more trouble. 

On the other hand, publicly forgiving these children, and publicly making them swear loyalty to Jon is going to have a far longer positive effect. You have to remember that these are kids. Anything that happens now is going to have a lasting impression on them. Even though their houses were disloyal, the Starks reached out a hand and accepted them back into their band. That kind of forgiveness forges strong bonds. 

Sansa's view is wrong, but I understand where she's coming from. And you explained it well.  Hearing how excited Tormund was to man the wall was pretty sweet.I watch it via HBO Now, which airs the inside the episode immediately after the ep ends. It isn't really. People are perfectly capable of rooting for deeply flawed and grey characters, DnD just can't or don't want to (maybe a combination of both) write him in that way.Not really. People thought Ned was the hero, yet he made the most retarded decisions in the story. Robb was a hero, same trait. Dany is another hero, yet she would be gone without her advisorsYeah, the Rickon thing is definitely his huge mistake that he makes in season 6. Of course, I think the aftermath of that kinda reinforces this "Jon is Right" feeling - he still gets named king, even though he made a very stupid mistake. Which is another Jon trend in the show - in season 2, even though he disobeys LC Mormont and acts like a brat, he gets to go on the special mission with Qhorin Halfhand because....he's the protagonist? 

Sansa's only a year or two younger than Jon - it's just odd to make her that much more ignorant than Jon about politics when she's spent the past several years hanging around some of the most powerful political figures in Westeros, and Jon has spent several years...not doing that. There's no reason to make her significantly less politically savvy than Jon. And honestly, she's not, even with these scenes! It has more to do with them writing her as a vengeance-obsessed paranoid woman, which I kinda feel is a tired trope for the show at this point - Arya, the Sand Snakes, Ellaria, Cersei...Yeah maybe necessity dictates it in this situation. There are other complicating factors that went ignored too. Like the fact that men don't *want* their women and children to fight. Even when the women and children are willing and able to fight, often the husbands, fathers, and male leaders forbid it. Sure, Lyanna is a woman. But the other northern lords aren't and neither are the Mormont fathers and husbands. The idea that women are entitled to a right to fight is so modern that it wouldn't even occur to the people in the story. It would have to be out of pure necessity, which it very well may be. That just isn't how it was portrayed in the show. "Knitting by the fire" is a bit of an exaggeration. There are dozens of ways to assist a war effort that don't include marching out to fight. Armies need weapons, arrows, clothes, food, water, fires, tents, horses. Castles need garrisons and defenses need to be shored up. None of these things are less important than combat. I saw it as active participants in the war, but idkFrom what I know, women are actually better at resisting G-force than men, but women aren't just in the airforce flying around, they are included in other parts of the army, and they are a liability.
Not just according to me, but take a look at the US army, they have lower physical standards for women, which is nuts. I did basic training (not in the US) and while the girls had heart, they needed help throughout the entire thing, everybody needs help sometimes, but you need soldiers to be able to carry their own weight. It is very few places in the military where a woman wouldn't be a liability.
(Rare exceptions where women are strong enough to not be should be allowed to be soldiers, although it still brings on entirely different issues that isnt pertinent right now)

But that is why I said "especially in a medieval type setting." In a modern setting it is different, many jobs aren't physically demanding, and several of the ones that are are equipped with tools that can assist, but there are still many jobs where a woman would be a liability, simply because of the physical disadvantage.Everything, because that mobilization would leave her open to attacks from Drone, Highgarden or the Dragonstone.And doesn't take a full on war to take out Sansa and Jon. Just a well timed assassin and Cersei has her revenge. It's unlikely Cersei sends an army North. Dany is at Dragonstone which is within easy striking distance of KL and Dorne/Highgarden are pissed. She'll probably talk to Littlefinger to try and make a deal. Since LF endgame is to be King of the 7 kingdoms he wants to try and marry Sansa, then off Jon anyways.I think sometimes people give Cersei way too much credit... Except for a small part, Cersei had nothing to do with the death of Ned, and absolutely notheing to do with the red wedding. In fact her actions have mostly undermined her own position.

Cersei can't invade the North, it's impossible without fully-grown dragons, and she's not killing some noble out of his own territory, both Ned and Robb were on a pit of snakes, while Jon is at home.

Also, that bitch has enough problems at home, it only pinpoints her own idiocy getting riled up about an unwinnable war against a faraway enemy. Pretty much all Jaime did this episode was just eyerolling with her poor judgement of strategy.I can agree with that. I think the show has made clear that you have to actually see what is going on beyond the wall to truly believe it. 

Sansa, the United North, the Maester with Sam...they all say they believe the stories they've been told by Jon and company but they don't seem to believe it in their hearts yet. For them life is still going on as normal, even with Jon making preparations. Too trueWould you rather get stabbed in the back whilst ignoring Cersei? Jon, you and everybody else who dismisses Cersei are the foolish ones here, not Sansa. Enemies on all sides needs attention on all sides. Ignore the most dangerous woman in Westeros at your own perilJon isn't going to worry about Cersie, Sansa can do that just fine.  Jon is going to face northwards as the true threat, and he is going to head south, to Dragonstone to meet Daenerys and get some freaking dragonglass.  Really it doesn't matter what Cersie wants to do, she is straight fucked already, Lannisters are torched and Euron isn't enough to help her overcome her blunders.It seems there are other ways to punish the families other than putting them to the sword or taking the whole castle. 

They could probably weaken those families by taking some of the smaller household bannermen pledged to them and giving them to another northern family.Just like all those time the Starks defeated and then spared the Boltons?

Even assuming that allowing them to get away with pulling some treasonous shit will keep the Karstarks and Umbers loyal, which I doubt, he's going to end up with the same problem Robb had with Rickard Karstark.   There's no repercussions for crossing you, you just yell at me?  How is that going to stop anyone from doing whatever they want?  They're going to be loyal because they know that if they aren't, Jon might very well give their homes to Wildlings. I didn't say to make anybody marry anybody. I specifically said the opposite.

Under my suggestion you'd reinforce their lordships and autonomy by reminding everybody that Lady Alys makes the marriage pacts for Karhold, and Lord Umber makes the marriage pacts for Last Hearth, not Jon. Take it up with them if anybody wishes to try and claim their castles by offering them a good deal, just like you would with any other marriage pact between Houses.

They'd get to remain lords and Jon would be trusting them to act like lords too. They'd be lords both by royal decree and by their own actions should they eventually successfully negotiate their own marriage pacts. It reinforces their autonomy and independence, and lets all the other lords know that Jon won't interfere in their businesses either.Except if you give away the Karstarks and Umbers lands you have to decide who to give it to. And anyone who thought they deserved will be scrabbling to be chosen. And those who aren't chosen will be bitter.
The simplest way is to maintain the status quo.no, they just didn't want to add more characters to showNo. In the books he is sent beyond the wall at some point in a ranging mission and is still missing at the end of ADWD.I would argue a slightly different position: She didn't "just happen" to be there, she was there because the Lord of Light willed it. The Lord of Light wanted Jon brought back to life, and so through His will Melisandre was there to do it. So you think Jon would "wake up" even if she was not there?
He likes sticking it to the other lords that him and his people have rights now. That is why I say it is the Nature of Television. If the writers wanted a deeply flawed hero, like Jon is in the Books, they could have done so, but they didn't.  Instead they pandered to a known audience.Ned was a cautionary Tale. It showed that an honest Man should not be at the center of the Kingdom.> Of course, I think the aftermath of that kinda reinforces this "Jon is Right" feeling - he still gets named king, even though he made a very stupid mistake.

That's part of a different problem though, namely that he keeps failing upwards. He fucks up and then gets rewarded for fucking up. The reason for that has more to do with narrative structure than anything else though. The writers want character growth, which often means having him make mistakes to learn from, but they also want to advance the story meaning he has to at the same time move up in the world. The result is him seemingly coming out on top whenever he fails. He's not the only one affected by this though, another major candidate would be Daenerys, for example, for basically the same reasons. 

I think a point could be made that Jon doesn't ever get called out for his mistakes however, which is sort of jarring. It's not that he doesn't screw up, he does, but that it sort of ends up getting swept under the rug whereas other characters tend to get the narrative equivalent of a scolding. Doesn't make him always right, just means that the story surrounding him isn't quite as compelling as it could be.>Sansa's only a year or two younger than Jon - it's just odd to make her that much more ignorant than Jon about politics when she's spent the past several years hanging around some of the most powerful political figures in Westeros, and Jon has spent several years...not doing that. There's no reason to make her significantly less politically savvy than Jon. 

But is that not how it is in the books? If anything they are trying to project Sansa as being more politcally savvy than Jon on the show which is the opposite of the books. In the books, Jon knows the North so well that he instructs Stannis on what to do, he plays the game with the Karstarks and interacts successfully with the mountain clan. Sansa is still very limited in her knowledge in the Vale and I doubt she knows anything about the North.

So if they are going to get to the same book endings, and Jon ends up as KITN because of Robb's will, he is going to end up ruling using his own expertise. He does not need Sansa. I doubt Sansa is even end up going North. Her story is in the south with LF, trying to outmaneuver him - not playing politics in the North. So writing Jon as an idiot to showcase Sansa as being 'politcally savvy' makes no sense. 

This Sansa 'advising' Jon stuff up North is only there to give Sansa something to do while she plays out the LF plot. I doubt it's going to be of any significance later on. My takeaway from the jon/sansa debate is a bit different. I agree that sansa has far more experience in politics than Jon, especially with LF coaching her. However the north seems to be more about honor, loyalty, kinship (of course there's examples of the complete opposite as well). KL and everyone Sansa has been exposed to however has been about manipulation and playing the game for personal gain.

To me it felt like a very powerful scene where despite seeing resistance, Jon stuck to what his heart felt right. His actions are in alignment to how a true man of the north would behave, a type of decision that I could see Ned making.

He needs the full support of the north and is taking a risk by allowing the Karstarks and Umbers to retain their power. Yet in doing so he is showing that despite hiccups in the past few years, the north stands together as all of their ancestors had for thousands of years. Jon isn't making decisions based on what's best for house Stark, but for what's best for all of the north (and by extension the entire continent).

Sansa isn't necessarily wrong, but her recommendation is basically applying southern politics to the north.

I think Jons decision truly did portray him as a proper king in the north.

TLDR: Sansa's politics inspire men logically, Jon's method inspires the heart.Sansa is still much better politically than Jon.  I don't even think she's even significantly vengeful compared to other characters (e.g. Arya, Cersei, Ellaria).  Their focuses and goals are just very different.  Jon is a pragmatist trying to prepare for Armageddon.  Sansa is a realist.  She knows that people won't follow him blindly forever and instinctively her reaction is to prepare for the immediate problems directly in front of her.

If anything, I would've liked to see Jon be more cynical about leading people or some kind of difference in his personality.  Especially since he's pretty much doing the same thing that led to his Night Watch brothers killing him the first time around.Siege was not an option. Even with the help of the Vale, Ramsey had to be persuaded to leave the safety of Winterfell. He had to believe and fully commit to a victory in the field. 

Without knowledge of Jon's ignorance to the Vale Knights plan, it would just look like Jon heroically put himself in the vanguard of the bait force. Which would make his men love him more, since he is not asking them to risk more than he is willing to himself. Being used as bait would otherwise leave a very bad aftertaste. 

A happy mistake.Jon was sent with the half hand because he is a skill fighter and Mormont wanted him to get ranging experience.

Sansa and Jon's upbringing were completely different. She spent her time growing up believing that she would marry and lord and live happily. Jon believed that he would grow up to be a man of duty. 

Sansa's experience with actual politics is minimal. She spent her time in Kings Landing just trying to stay in one piece. The game she played was one of survival, not leadership. Jon on the other hand was raised alongside Robb and learned the values of being a lord and a leader from Ned. He has experience in leadership and politics while dealing with Mance and from his time as Lord Commander.

Jon has been groomed since birth to be a leader. I don't think those things went ignored at all. I think it was quite obvious that the majority of the men in the room were quite uncomfortable with the idea. But even if there are ways to assist in a war without fighting, the fact is that in times of need, the front lines need to be fully staffed. And garrisons and defenses *do* count as participating/fighting, actually. They are positions normally staffed by soldiers Somebody could definitely be contributing to the fight by holding the defensive line and not be considered "knitting by the fire."

I think you are seeing this as much too black and white. I don't think that Lyanna was necessarily saying PUT ME ON THE FRONT LINES, I WANT TO FIGHT LIKE THE BIGGEST, STRONGEST MEN! - She was saying that she has every intention of participating and contributing in any way she can. She might be bold, she might be brave, but she isn't dumb.No, I mean what does she have left to lose? She has no children, no family or friends left. If she lost the war she doesn't have anyone but Jaime to worry about and, as we've seen, he's just not a top priority for her anymore.The Lannisters have long since proven they are willing to start wars by killing Starks in whatever way possible. Sansa' not being paranoid at all hahaAnother crazy guy named Joff had the same idea, it eventually caused the fall of his house... So not a good idea.And the great irony in all of this is that the Wildlings, because they have seen what Jon has seen, are the the most trustworthy allies he has at the moment. Like him, they don't give a shit about southern wars. They just want to survive. And without the completely unifying fear of the white walkers these cracks created in the alliance are dangerous. Jon has been leading those sworn to protect the wall not whole houses with different agendas. How is Cersei the most dangerous woman in Westeros? This is so wrong, here is what Cersei has: gold cloaks, qyburn and best case scenario some left over wildfire, and the Lannister army, but her family has every reason to ditch her, as her extended relatives already dislike her, or not back her up (including jaime, i was SORELY disappointed he barely cared that she Aerys'd kings landing, killing their in-laws, ending alliance with the Reach, causing Tommen's suicide). Look at a map of Westeros, there is a zero percent chance a Lannister army either leaves Lannisport/Casterly Rock/King's Landing to head NORTH of all directions when the Reach is potentially about to declare war with the crown, Dorne has already declared war on the crown, and Stormlands are unsettled, the Freys are done and the North, Riverlands, and Eyrie are united. 

Will she attempt to have Jon assassinated? No, she doesn't give a rat's ass about Jon (because she isn't smart, just a petty jerk), will she try for Sansa? Maybe, but... how? A dirty deal with Littlefinger is her best chance that I can tell, as she's shit broke. Dany and Tyrion are BY FAR the biggest fish to fry for her. 

She is also incapable of doing any of these things, it was fitting how she mentioned "learning from [their] father for 40 years" as that is a classic cersei-is-so-stupid-to-everyone-but-her moment, it would literally be a plothole if cersei did anything but desperately try to keep kings landing (in that if she suddenly becomes a sound strategist it would have come from nowhere and be based on nothing, she's never done anything except act like a bitch on a power trip, and her shtick with the faith and tommen showed how useless she actually is. She actually fundamentally sabotages most projects she touches as far as I can tell. This is, after all, the character who decided to KILL bobby b, her husband, the king, because she was sick of him, oopsie also completely destroyed her own life and caused massive war, who could have seen that coming?! (everyone))

The most dangerous women in Westeros: Arya, Dany (and by extension, perhaps Asha/Yara), Olenna, the Sand Snakes, Cersei is much closer to Olenna and the Sand Snakes, but is actually in a FAR worse strategic position. Hell, someone could show up with an army to kings landing and essentially waltz in and take it, as long as no wildfire goes off. Cersei literally cannot win, only thing she could do is run away and start a new life, which won't happen. Cersei also has no resources, the only reason she lived so long being such a terrible person with no brain was because of Jaime and Tywin and the fam's cash, she has none of these things now (1 hand). 

As far as I can tell the singular hope she has lays with Euron, if Euron has the dragon horn and takes one of Dany's, plus if his fleet is legit (in reality there's NO way this guy's "fleet" would be legit after Theon and Asha/Yara took the whole thing unless a straight up year had passed.) This would make it possible to wage war on the Reach and Dorne (not on 2 fronts, or on land, as any military gains would be via Iron Fleet), she could try to start a war between the Martells and Tyrells but she was too much of an asshole so both of them are just gonna come after her. Yeah, she's screwed.

edit: wordsBecause of exactly what Jon said. It's winter. They can't march troops North, but the dead sure as hell can come south. Cersei is a threat, just not the most important one.Thing is we know cersei isnt a threat cos she is under pressure from all sides and doesnt have the ressources to invade north also winter. So if we idnt know that Sansa would be correct if not for winter.The punishment for treason is death.Jon has repercussions, he will chop a head, hang a bitch, do what he has to do.  He is simply not punishing the children for the father's mistakes.  He is being a good benevolent ruler, this is the first time these houses have ever been disloyal.  These children are going to remember who spared their houses and will teach subsequent generations the value of loyalty.  If you can't have faith in the next generation then you are doomed.  Sansa makes good points but those kids did not say, hey Dad don't support the Stark's support the Bolton's, they are kids and they will not forget this act of kindness.  Neither will their kids and so on.You might have a point if the white walkers weren't coming...but they are an the entire north is looking to him for guidance right now. We've seen Jon, under normal conditions, doesn't suffer traitors. 

You're talking about the long game but right now the short game is the important one. Yes, Jon will have to consider this stuff if he is to lead a stable nation but right now it's far more important he just gets them on side in the short term to deal with the on-coming thread.That's an even worse option. A previously loyal house airs grievances that they didn't acquire any rewards for being loyal while a traitorous house was allowed, for the most part, to keep all the lands, castles, etc. they previously had. They argue it isn't fair, and that they are beginning to question their loyalty to a house that doesn't seem to appreciate them. What do you do? Turn on them and give their homes to the Wildlings. Way to turn every other house in the North back against you (bar sure, the two traitorous houses whose loyalty you retained).> I didn't say to make anybody marry anybody. I specifically said the opposite.

It's not a bad idea, though, is it? It's like something that a professional writer would come up with. Especially in Alys Karstark's case.But then you'd still have to figure out who they would marry, which would take time. And don't think that the other lords would want a say.Once a deserving contestant has been chosen, the squabbling would end. Then those losing out would work even harder, because Jon has now proven that he rewards loyalty and hard work. I really hope this is wrong. I hate the idea of a sentient "god" in the ASOIAF world because it takes a lot away from the characters' ability to make decisions and make up reasons to do selfish stuff.  
I hope that in the end there's just magic and magical stuff in this world and the different gods and entities are just people's way of making sense of that magic.If Davos is Azor Ahai, he was the one who revived him and thus "woke a dragon"  in accordance to the prophecy. He also wouldn't mind sticking it to Brienne if you know what I mean.I don't think you can blame it on the medium. There are plenty of TV shows with grey heroes, DnD just don't seem to like writing themI don't see much evidence of Sansa being better politically.  She can lie and be sneaky, sure.  At the end of season 6 she laments not being listened to but when asked fails to offer any real advice.  In this episode, she laments not being listened to, but again her advice is either ill-advised or useless in real terms.  She risked sparking a vendetta with Northern Houses and is trying to take Jon's attention away from the only things that matters with the Winter setting in.  

She may have some potential in the political maneuvering field but we have yet to see a real 'win' from her in this area.  She has learned from Cersei who is a failure in real terms and Littlefinger who is still very much a wildcard.  Not exactly the best of role models.

The other factor in politics is being an effective ruler, and like it or not Jon is being portrayed as being pretty good at it.  At least with the given impending apocalypse.  So while maybe his type of leadership wouldn't fly in King's Landing long or if Winter wasn't coming (though it is always coming), his perspective is what is needed for the Long Night to come.Jon's lack of wheeling and dealing ability got him murdered. Groomed since birth, sure, but if he was a perfect leader he wouldn't have been butchered by his own men. I think he's a good figurehead but he definitely struggles with compromising his values to do what's practical/politically expedient. It earns him respect, but it also got him killed. I wouldn't write off Sansa entirely (although she's far from perfect) or overrate Jon's ability .I think one man tried to object before Lyanna interrupted him. When Lyanna was done talking they all seemed to agree with her. 

There's a big difference between charging into battle and shooting people through a murderhole. For starters, nobody is going to pass under the murderhole until the army who marched out to fight them has already failed. 

Lyanna said something like "put a spear in the hands of every woman and child." Unless they're knitting for a giant I think that explicitly refers to combat.AND the terror of these things has never been allowed to become a myth for them. They have traditionally always been worried about the Others, always burning their dead, always aware that they could encounter them. (See also Pervmeister Crastor's tributes). 

I guess one of the things that irks me the most about the ignorance of the common people is ... why would they build SUCH a huge wall, with an honor-bound lifelong guard designed to have no political alignments and few (if any) worldly attachments? The wildlings couldn't possibly be a big enough problem or threat to warrant all that. And why would they be called the Night's Watch if not because of their position during "the long night" or a long night? It's not like they only defend the wall at night. (Which I guess is why the Watch has become a skeleton crew with little support from the rest of the empire. Nobody seems to understand why border patrol is such a big deal, not realizing it isn't really border patrol at all.) Why hasn't anybody gone, "Waaaait a second..."?You're confusing power with danger. Cersei isn't the most powerful woman in Westeros, but she is the most dangerous (with possible exception of Dany, who I forgot was in Westeros. I still think Cersei wins, which I'll get to)
Everything you've listed in rebuttal makes her less powerful, but more dangerous. 

Cersei has never been the most powerful woman. That honour would arguably have gone to Olenna Tyrrel. But she, like you, underestimated the danger of Cersei. I'm sure I don't need to remind you how well that turned out for her and her family. 
All Olennas wisdom, cunning, power, all went up in flames. 

Cersei blew up half of king's landing on a whim. Killed thousands of people on a whim. What do you think she'll do if Dany lands her dragons in king's landing? All Dany's power, all her wisdom will be for naught, all because she underestimated Cersei. (I mean this is unlikely to happen whilst old golden hand is around, but you get the picture). 

Cersei makes plans that almost always succeed. Her problem is that she doesn't think of the consequences, which like you say almost always backfire (poor little Tommen).

I think you should look at a map. Lannisters control the Riverlands, The Rock and the Crownlands. The Riverlands border the North, with only Moat Caitlin standing between them. Last we heard the Bolton's control the neck, and I'd say it's safe to assume that's still the case. Would marching a Lannister army North be smart? No. Could it possibly fuck up Jon's day to suddenly find himself getting jabbed in the arse by a deranged madwoman whilst fighting the WW? Certainly. 

I also refute that Cersei doesn't care about Jon. She tried to have him killed or supplanted when he was no more than a nameless bastard on the wall. Now he's the king and allied with the woman who killed Joffrey. There's no way she doesn't look at trying to assassinate him. 

If it was within her power Cersei would burn all Seven Kingdoms to the ground before giving in, and that is what makes her dangerous. 

I'm not saying she'll win; she's doomed to fail, which just makes her more dangerous
They can March troops North. It would be a crazy thing to do, but who do we know who has a penchant for crazy? Jon was ready to completely ignore Cersei, and whilst yes obviously the White Walker's should be everyone's focus, Cersei shouldn't be ignored. 

Be ready for everything and surprised by nothingYou think being surrounded will stop her on her mad path for vengeance? Never underestimate Cersei. You think Tyrion is going to underestimate her? 

Jon knows nothing about what's happening in king's landing. Sansa has a much better idea, but even her info is old and outdated. She is completely right to treat Cersei like a real threat and so is any leader worth their saltExcept post-squabble there would be even MORE people likely to betray him, feeling jaded or cheated out of an opportunity. Best to not even let them believe that opportunity existed.My understanding of the LoL (if he exists as a sentient entity)is that he is more of a little-g god. Knows a lot about the workings of people and can manipulate them through sending visions in the fire. 

It's unclear how well he can foresee the future, but the visions sent to Mel were clearly wrong, and I'm assuming that the LoL knew that to begin with. If these assumptions are correct, then the only reason for all of that would be to get Mel to the North. Bah. It's the dragons yo. All the red preists/preistesses are getting their power back because the dragons are alive and stronger. They're all tied together.Is Stannis his figurative Nissa Nissa then?I'm so fucking on-board with this.Dude I so fucking love this subThat can be dangerous...What do you mean? She offered great advice. She warned of Ramseys trap which Jon proceeded to fall forBook Sansa is a natural.

>She is good at this, he thought, as he watched her tell Lord Gyles that his cough was sounding better, compliment Elinor Tyrell on her gown, and question Jalabhar Xho about wedding customs in the Summer Isles. His cousin Ser Lancel had been brought down by Ser Kevan, the first time he’d left his sickbed since the battle. He looks ghastly. Lancel’s hair had turned white and brittle, and he was thin as a stick. Without his father beside him holding him up, he would surely have collapsed. Yet when Sansa praised his valor and said how good it was to see him getting strong again, both Lancel and Ser Kevan beamed. She would have made Joffrey a good queen and a better wife if he’d had the sense to love her. He wondered if his nephew was capable of loving anyone.

Sansa "KILL THE CHILDREN JON I WANT TO HEAR THEM FUCKING BEG FOR DEATH" Stark from the show... not so much.>her advice is either ill-advised or useless in real terms

That remains to be seen, though. A young child might be grateful for being spared, but can be much more easily manipulated by the enemy.  People like Littlefinger could turn those kids in a heartbeat.  A savvy enemy could wait until a vulnerable moment and then remove two important castles from play, and decimate the North.  Alternatively, in a few years those children could easily become embittered about their dead relatives and support another family, especially if things aren't going well.

Jon's thinking is "correct" and honorable, but Sansa has seen behind the curtain.  They're waging war on two different fronts and in some ways they're both right.There was really no way to bend those men to his cause tough. They need the help of the Wildlings, there's no way around it. Jon was doing exactly what a Lord Commander should. Keep The Wall man'd so they can keep the long night at bay. The faction of traitors cared more about their personal bias than doing their true duty. They thought they were fighting a war, just not the right war.There's also a big difference between respecting her sovereignty over her house and therefore self (because they don't really have a choice since they don't have any authority over her) and *agreeing* with her. That's because the Night's Watch became a political tool to get rid of people without executing them. Fair angle! I like that, yes Cersei is definitely comparable to a bull in a china shop. The Lannisters certainly do not control the Riverlands, their sole ally there has been thoroughly extinguished, yes, crown forces I believe do control Riverrun still, but without the Freys this is a vulnerable and unsupported position and likely won't last terribly long, especially with the Starks evidently on the ascendancy this season, and there are generally several anti-crown/anti-Lannister factions mulling around that region.

 I also don't think Cersei had anything to do with Janos being a dickhead on the wall, Tyrion sends him there after learning of his hand in Ned's betrayal (as he was bought by Cersei and LF), so he goes to the wall and then just is a jerk bonehead gets killed (that I can remember, I do not remember him having an assignment from Cersei at the wall, I believe he aligned against Jon because he himself wanted to be Lord Commander). 

Yes, I will certainly concede that Cersei's kings landing is the most dangerous place in the seven kingdoms currently (excluding the far north), IF she has more caches of wildfire. She has no friends though (Qyburn, UnGregor, maybe Jaime), and very very limited reach, so outside of kings landing I do not think she is super dangerous, I think if she married Euron that would be a boost to her power, reach, and danger, but I do recall her telling Tywin to hit the road when he suggested she remarry, cause she thinks she's too powerful and doesn't have to. You've nailed it on the head in terms of Cersei being unhinged and extremely desperate. 

Oh also, the Boltons are extinct (all known Boltons in the entire series are dead), they do not control the neck. But the Lannisters do control the Crownlands and the Westerlands. I also like your idea that Cersei's plans absolutely work they just come with consequences that she disregards to a fatal extent, constantly.Cersei might be crazy but she's not stupid enough to march north while she herself is currently surrounded by enemies, the biggest threat of which literally just landed across the bay. The North has garrisons and fortresses. It would be easy for them to refocus their forces to the south if necessary. The south on the other hand would take significant losses trying to get anywhere near Winterfell. Cersei's only hope is a naval assault, but even then a siege would be foolish.Actually Tyrion is the most likely to dismiss her as a raving lunatic and let her fall under her own weight.

People give waaaaaay too much credit to Cersei, who has little real power of her own, if any.

Jon is in winterfell (for the time being), while a crazy chic with dragons is literally at Cersei's doorstep... if that's not poor judgment of priorities, then I don't know what is.You basically paraphrased what i said but better. We got infos on cersei and dont see her as a threat cos of many reasons. Jon using his military knowledge is sure cersei isnt a direct threat cos lannisters cant fight the north in winter also as he doesnt know her that well he isnt used to her cunning and wont expect assassins cos if you want someone dead in the north you do it yourself.We're talking about people who supported Jon before he had won the North, not turncloaks and common opportunists. At worst some people would grow impatient for being passed over, but at least they wouldn't be powerful lords at that point.    chicken or the egg?Nah it's Shireen.How could he have possibly avoided it? He shouldn't have run right into battle like that, but Rickon couldn't be saved. There was little way around it. Telling Jon that Ramsey is laying out a trap doesn't change the fact that they must march on Winterfell.What exactly was her advice for not falling into the trap?You example from the book didn't show a good politician at all.

Your example from the show was over exaggerated.

You failed.She never said to kill them, Jesus. She said not to reward them. And to reward loyal families.That's not even politicking, that's her being complimentary and socializing well.  While that is very valuable when politicking, it is just one piece of the puzzle.  I do suspect the books will give Sansa a better transition than the show is though.Unless those kids rebel next episode, it won't matter.  The only fight that matters in Winter is the White Walker fight.  Cersei isn't going to send an army into Winter, or if she does she really is stupid (or the showrunners abandon all logic).

What Jon did was paint over the division, at least until this White Walker crisis is over.  "Politics as usual", especially Southron politics, is not what is needed with the impending apocalypse.

I still think it is sad Sansa has advocated for inflicting  upon these kids/families what happened to the Starks.  Ironic and you would think she would realize the parallel.Her advice on Ramsey was completely useless and her advice on how to treat the other houses was debatable at best. Northerners value tradition and honor. His actions made him look like a good and strong leader in front of his bannermen.I'm not disagreeing with you, but a leader's job is to bend men to his cause - if you can't do that, then you've chosen the wrong cause as a leader. The Wall wasn't served at all by Jon getting murdered. It only caused infighting.  Jon wasn't in touch with his men. It was explored a lot better in the books, I think, where you can see him consistently choosing what he thinks is right over what makes a good leader/what his duty is. Someone with more political skill than Jon would have been able to broker a deal - ironically, Jon's acting more like his real father than Ned, in that he's getting fixated on prophecy and the big picture and utterly neglecting the very real day-to-day problems. "Why care about morale when there's the White Walkers coming?" The answer is Jon's behaving the exact same way that got him murdered. I don't disagree with his priorities at all, as obviously the eldritch popsicles are the bigger threat to Westeros than some half-starved wildlings. That being said, he's never done a good job of translating his vision into what the people want/the gritty day to day stuff. Sansa gets that better - sure, maybe the Northern Lords are skeptical of the White Walkers, but they're not skeptical about winning themselves an ancient, prestigious castle for their loyalty. That's something tangible that matters to these people. Jon needs Sansa more than he realizes. I'm kinda disappointed the showrunners haven't made him more cynical since he got stabbed.House Mormont can do whatever they want. My gripe is that Jon would order such a thing. And that the other Houses would agree to it so easily. The fact that the subject is even being discussed by the characters is completely inconsistent with the setting. I don't mean the real world equivalent of the setting. I mean the setting that the show has established for itself. You used the word patriarchal to describe their society. What does patriarchal mean if not exactly this type of thing? We can say that times are changing and this is an example of progress, perhaps the first example.  But let's not pretend like the writers didn't break setting and skip over a thousand years of social progress in order to give Lyanna a cool moment.The Night's Watch became that *because* nobody understood their importance or significance anymore, not the other way around. Haha I think we're pretty much on the same page now. I never really thought Cersei was going to march North, or that she poses a threat, I've just been playing devil's advocate. Her madness and chaos still shouldn't be discounted though. 

All the Bolton's are dead but that doesn't necessarily mean they don't still control the neck. Forces would have been left there. If I were to guess though I'd say that's all just been solved behind the scenes and Jon has the whole North again. And whilst the Lannisters might control the Riverlands technically, there's no way my boy Blackfish doesn't lead an uprising soon. 

She did have a lot to do with Janos in the books, I don't remember if any of that was translated into the show, but if the opportunity to have Jon assassinated arose she would leap on it I think. 

I don't think she'll marry Euron either. He wants the most beautiful woman alive, he's gonna take one look at the Dragon Queen and change his whole gameplan, if he isn't already aware. 

But yeah, I do agree that Cersei is at the end of her rope, I only started here cause I was bored at work and thought my girl Sansa needed some defending. I don't actually thinking Cersei is capable of much more than going out in a big explosion, but Sansa is still wise (in the context of what she and Jon know) to be cautious of the threat Cersei poses


Fuck how many days till episode two again?
Jon and Sansa know about Dany?The combined forces of every northern lord sits at Winterfel. Severely depleted forces. All those Southern castles will be almost entirely empty as every man woman and child is having spears put in their hands to fight the WW. Yes a march North would be suicide. But if anyone's gonna do it... 

Again, be prepared for everything, surprised by nothing. That was Sansas point, and it's a good oneNo way does Tyrion dismiss Cersei. No fucking way. 

Yes, prioritise the WW threat, but do not dismiss Cersei! Ned did.I still see her as a threat. Egg.

Specifically, Dragon egg in a fire made with human sacrifice with a Targaryen in the picture.

Followed by red witch.

Edit: ok I can also admit that it seems magic is generally getting stronger... Maybe seasonal or otherwise influenced.Sick..... burn? 
I'll show myself out.You realize they had an actually battle plan? There are millitary strategies to be employed against superior numbers. Jon ruined the battle plan when he charged. If he was like Sansa, he woulda recognized the futility of trying to save Rickon and remained in formationShe told him he's going to try to trick you into doing what he wants and to avoid that at all cost. She tells him she wasnt trying to give military advice, but insight into Ramsays mind instead. He lost the battle when he charged into the open field to save rickonYeah that's what we call *hyperbole*.> Unless those kids rebel next episode, it won't matter.  The only fight that matters in Winter is the White Walker fight. 

I think a strong argument could be made that Jon could just as easily be making a huge mistake, politically.  Following Sansa's path could have reinforced that people should be loyal and follow Jon as king.  Following his own path does exactly what Sansa said it would: it signals that there are no consequences for treason and that obedience will not be rewarded.  Stated another way, if all outcomes were actually possible (i.e., we ignored that this is a show with an end-plot in mind), then maybe the Karstark children remain loyal and everything is fine, or maybe they also buckle when Jon needs them most.  Similarly, maybe everyone follows Jon and doesn't mind not being rewarded, or maybe they resent Jon for not rewarding them and become less loyal.  

The entire point of OP's post is that Jon's "decisions" are presented in a way where he is always right, even when a real-life scenario would be more complicated/nuanced.  If we trust that the Northern families will follow Jon no matter what, as the show will probably do, then sure, Sansa offered ridiculous advice.  But if we assumed for half a second it was possible the North wouldn't always follow Jon no matter what, then Sansa could have the right of it after all. 

Even though there's a larger enemy, that doesn't necessarily mean Jon's people will respect that and band together without question.  Rewarding loyalty and punishing treason, outside of the context of the show, is a viable political strategy.  Sansa's advice shouldn't be labeled "ill-advised" or otherwise just because Jon made an alternate decision.   Littlefinger is controlling the Vale through a kid.  He, or someone like him, takes control of little Karstark or Umber and offers Cersei a deal in exchange for something he wants.  He allows the WW walk by two key castles. *Cersei doesn't need to send an army North*.  Jon is leaving open a vulnerability.

>I still think it is sad Sansa has advocated for inflicting upon these kids/families what happened to the Starks. Ironic and you would think she would realize the parallel.

She does! She says Ned couldn't protect her because he was too honorable. All she's seeing is all of these pieces wiped off the board but Cersei is still alive, to her survival > honor.> Her advice on Ramsey was completely useless"

"Don't do what Ramsay wants you to do. He sets traps he doesn't fall for them"

Jon falls for it. 

"Rickon wil die"

Rickon dies


Useless how? She gave sound advice on a man she knew and Jon ignored her and got way more northeners killed than needed.>But let's not pretend like the writers didn't break setting and skip over a thousand years of social progress in order to give Lyanna a cool moment.


I'm not pretending that at all. In fact I think that you are making some kind of flying leap to some conclusion that I can't seem to connect. Again, this is a special situation (the kingdoms have been at war for years; the Others are coming, a bastard of a noble house is the chosen King in the North) and it doesn't "skip a thousand years of social progress" to have no authority over what the heads of other houses decide to do as long as they aren't breaking any laws. Everybody can be as uncomfortable as they want (and I'm sure they are), but the head of some other house would have no grounds to stand up and tell Lady Mormont that she was not allowed to do such a thing. As long as Jon himself (the chosen King) doesn't tell Lyanna she can't fight, nobody in that room has any grounds to disallow her from doing so if she pleases, even if they REALLY want to. There is no "age of majority" in Westeros. People don't magically go from child to adult on their 18th birthday. They assume responsibilities when those responsibilities fall on them, and in her case it fell on her quite young. 

It *really isn't* "skipping a thousand years of social progress" and it definitely isn't as outrageous as you seem to think it is. Even Brienne herself - everybody makes fun of her, talks about her, but nobody can stop her from armoring up and going into battle except an actual authority figure. There's no law that says she can't. 

It's the same reason why Ned Stark got Arya a swordfighting teacher, and he got one from Braavos (another place, like Dorne, where this is more common). He may have upheld his noble dignity (and kept Cat from intervening) by calling it "dancing lessons" - but Arya was still allowed to learn to use her sword, and she was still allowed to own one. This was breaking a social convention but it wasn't "skipping a thousand years of social progress" either. The same thing with Dorne - on the same continent, technically part of the same empire, you have women like the Sand Snakes. And in Dorne, they aren't even considered strange. And then there's Nymeria, the Warrior Queen that Arya named her direwolf after, and Visenya and Rhaenys Targaryen.  And what about Asha/Yara Greyjoy? She isn't totally taken seriously all the time, but she still does what she likes, drinking and whoring and fighting and sailing like a man. It's not as if there's zero historical or contextual precedent. It's just not a generally cool thing to do, especially not among nobility. Meera Reed also comes to mind. I get the feeling that the Northern families are even somewhat proud of little Lyanna Mormont's bravery and loyalty, even if they find it foolish. Maege Mormont, Lyanna's mother (the She-Bear) served in Robb Stark's army, as did her other daughters, all older than Lyanna, and I believe all dead. [Most of the stuff about Maege Mormont and her daughters is book material, though it was confirmed in Season 6 that she died fighting in Robb's army]. Love it! It really will be fun to follow full-blown Cersei, she's destined for Mad King tier infamy. I'm still gutted they killed the Blackfish on the show! That was extremely lame, right up there with Bloodraven just looking like a normal old white guy. 

Yeah you're probs right about her wanting to kill Jon, she wants to kill all Starks, and pretty much EVERYONE else too, which is a big bite to chew for her (lol). 

Yeah I'm hoping you're right about Euron, wonder what Euron's gonna get up to now that he's on the scene.

I think the fault is more the writing than Sansa, obviously they're trying to express that Sansa definitely does have awareness of political and social elements in Westeros that are ruthless, but they just have her interject "Cersei is fucking dangerous Jon hi!!!" in a way that reflects almost poorly on her. Book Sansa wouldn't be questioning Jon publicly or at weird times like that. But that's completely impractical. Separate your forces and prepare for a doomed invasion that might not happen, or prepare for the invasion that will most definitely happen and could end your entire nation.

Sansa doesn't fully understand the threat that the Walkers pose. She is so afraid of her former captor returning that she is ignoring the facts. The dead will destroy the North and possible all of Westeros. Cersei is an after thought compared to the Night King.Literally, Cersei is alive only because Varys allows it. He could literally have her killed by some children with crossbows while taking a shit or after dinner if he wanted... Tyrion knows how to exploit her weaknesses instead of falling to her stupid games. He literally played her around until papa came to her aide, and she only got him because of LF again instead of her own merits. She thinks she's a master manipulator but has only been a pawn in the games of others.

Ned was captured because he put his trust in Littlefinger instead of his own house or the rightful king, not because of Cersei. And he died because of Joff's craziness, not because Cersei willed it.Yeah i would tend to agree, although there is enough evidence to suggest that the magic in the air made it again possible for dragons to hatch. There is nothing wrong with Jon trying to save Rickon, he could have just turn back after Rickon was dead and returned to the formation, but he charged instead. That is where everything went to shit. Sansa's advice wouldn't have changed any of that. Jon didn't honestly believe that he could bring down Ramsey's entire army alone. He just wanted to get Ramsey. Jon was at fault for continuing the charge when he should have turned back, but nothing Sansa said would have changed the situation.That answer is too vague.  What does listening look like?  Don't go after Rickon?  "He is going to try to trick you, don't do what he wants you to".  As if Jon would be intending to do any of that on purpose.While I wouldn't put it past Littlefinger to fuck over the Starks in that way, he has just as much to lose during the apocalypse as anyone. 

Is there any real motivation for him to help the White Walkers?  And don't act as though taking their homes would disable them from gathering any sort of support otherwise.  

The Starks made a resurgence and are getting revenge (via Arya) for getting taken from their homes.  Taking those lands from the Umbers and Karstarks leaves them vulnerable to the same sort of retribution. Showing mercy here is just as pragmatic, and given prior evidence, probably a more prudent choice.  I suppose we will see what the showrunners think.  

Again, for all the suffering Sansa as endured, you might think she would avoid inflicting similar punishments.  But here she did not.  And soon Cersei herself will have her hands full of dragons.    That's Sansa problem though. She forgets that she is in The North again. Ned tried Northern politics in the south.

In the south, Ned's actions are seen as childish and naive. In The North his actions would be seen a practical. There is a reason people in The North didn't like the Boltons.What could have Jon done in that situation? If he waited winter would have gotten worse and their army would suffer. Rickon would have been forced on the battle field no matter what. Telling Jon that Ramsey is unpredictable doesn't change their situation at all.Okay but you're naming off a bunch of women who *want* to be warriors. You at least recognize that they aren't representative of most women in both this setting and real life, right? The reason Ned gifting Arya with a dancing teacher was such a big deal was *because* of these social conventions and political environment. The reason Brienne catches so much criticism is *because* in this setting men are generally in charge and they wouldn't allow their wives and daughters to go to war or become knights even if they wanted to. Ned prepares his daughters for marriage not because he believes his daughters are incapable of anything else, but because it's paramount to the survival of the House and safety of the region. 

When the only powerful women in the story are fighters, it gives the impression that being able to fight is the most important thing in life, the most efficient path to power, and the most admirable thing. That simply isn't true. No, forced marriage isn't fair. Neither is war. But it's necessary. The daughters and sisters who shoulder that responsibility and do their duty for the safety of the House are as brave and admirable as their brothers and fathers who pick up a sword and risk life and limb for the same reasons. Cat and Margaery were good examples of how kindness, diplomacy, history, heraldry, religion, "knitting by the fire" and all those *highly necessary* skills are the most important things in life, the most efficient paths to power, and the most admirable things. 

But Cat and Margaery's paths led them to an early grave, so what kind of lesson does that teach us? The story desperately needs Sansa to wield humanity and kindness the way she did in KL and become the political power that Catelyn and Ned raised her to be. It just doesn't look like it's going to pan out that way because the showrunners want to service the fans and most fans only speak one bloody language.No one is saying seperate forces. Be alert, be prepared, don't forget; ignore; underestimate; or dismiss the threat posed by the craziest lady in Westeros

I agree with Sansa doing the same for the threat of the WW. And Jon is absolutely right to focus North, just be carefulDoesn't matter. Everyone who has ever crossed her is dead. You can be on their side and underestimate her, or you can treat her like the incredibly dangerous person she is. Yes she's unhinged and doesn't play the game well. 

Didn't save The Tyrrell's. Didn't help Dorne. Didn't help the Sparrow. Won't help Jon, won't help Tyrion. Tyrion will know how to beat her, will know he can beat her, but will never for one second underestimate her.

Ned was captured because he told Cersei his whole plan, thinking she was a woman who needed protection and didn't deserve to die for caring for her children. 

Yes she's a pawn, an often stupid one. But she's mad, malicious, hell bent on revenge and even a pawn left unnoticed can rise to the rank of Queen and cause havoc

Also every character is only alive because Varys didn't murder them. That's hardly fairArchers started shooting at him in the field. He had no optionsRickon was dead the second Ramsay had him. Sansa wanted him to stick to the battle plan which Jon didnt. They could have won w/o the vale if jon didnt charge to save rickonSansas exposure to politics have been very strategic and chesslike. None of these political moves she's witnessed showed any heart or inspiration. All the deals and killings in KL, even LF control of the Vale was a cold and strategic move.

The North doesn't squabble in these southern politics. They follow with their hearts. Sansa doesn't see this intangible "asset".

In the books for example, although the Manderlys aren't originally men of the north, they still follow with their hearts. This was exemplified when we find out that they remember how centuries ago the Starks gave them assistance and land to call home. Despite it being logically suicidal to side with the Starks, they still secretly prepared and plotted to help the Starks whenever the opportunity would arise because the Manderlys and "the north remembers".The whole point of Littlefinger's character is that the only motivation he has is for his own gain.  He's pretty much behind so much of the war and death in the entire series and he doesn't care.  If someone has something he wants, he'd 100% let the entire continent burn if he could trade for it.  Someone one this board once joked the entire seven kingdoms is going to be wiped out at the end, and all that will be left is Littlefinger!That's a really good point.  I'm not sure she's correct, but I'm not sure that her advice is completely useless either.How about sticking to the original plan he and Davos devices? Making trenches? Not getting surrounded? If Jon had heeded Sansa's advice and admitted to himself that theres little chance that Rickon will come out alive from this situation and waited out Ramsay's impatience (even Jon realized Ramsay was easily angered) instead of always trying to be the hero, less northerners would have died.Wrong. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tsFeIVJfKsA

He had plenty of time to retreat.Yeah except Sansa has given mixed message when it comes to Rickon.

Season 6 Episode 4:

"A monster has taken our home and our brother. We have to go back to Winterfell and save them both."

So Sansa convinces Jon to lead them to Winterfell to save Rickon and then says to not save Rickon?  At the very least it shows Sansa doesn't give a rats ass about her brother, flipflopping on his well being.In the books Manderly also withheld thousands of troops from Robb, and again later with Bran, and then tried to manipulate Bran into granting him Hornwood and the right to control Robb's coinage. So there's also that.

The northerners scheme just like the southerners do.Yeah, sure.  But you still have to connect the dots on how he can turn the Karstarks and Umbers around, which I don't see occurring.  It would seem things have been settled, at least for now.  

If Jon had taken the family holdings, Petyr would have had even more influence to cause a rebellion than he does now because those families would have a greater desire of retribution.  Now Littlefinger would need to convince them to betray the mercy Jon showed them, probably harder to do.Jon actions in not sticking to the plan had nothing to do with not listening to Sansa. He acted impulsively and charged ahead when he shouldn't, but he knew full well what he was getting himself into. He didn't fall into any sort of trap or anything of that nature. Sansa's advice would change nothing. Jon could have turned around, but he acted on his emotions instead. There was no way to prevent what happened to Rickon, but Sansa telling Jon that won't change his emotional reaction.

Trenches would be useless. They didn't have the time or man power for a siege.I really like the idea of Ranyll joining the Lannister side, totally makes sense for his character and the plot overall. 

Quick question though, does the show confirm for a fact that Loras was the heir to Highgarden? In the books they have another son so not sure if that was included in the show or not. Randlyll Tarly has to end up with the Lannisters because Sam has to end up in some sort of showdown with his dad. I would like to see Randyll Tarly allied with the Lannisters.  Not only does it make great sense for the plot of the show, they would make great natural allies as Tarly never cared for his leige lord Tyrell.  Cersei will likely just kill the Queen of Thorns, thus committing full genocide of the Tyrells. She wants their supplies and land, not their forces. 

Remember, Eurons forces are pretty massive................and theres also another massive army out there with a certain pissed off dad with a missing sword.Yes in the show I believe he was the only son. I thought the ironborn don't have a terribly big army... Maximum of 20,000, with about 5,000 presumably ditching Euron to go with Yara.Maybe Euron's gift is Lady Ollena? Would please Cersei and allow Randyll to be unopposed in the Reach. Who is missing a sword? Didn't Robb have 20.000 men with which he marches south?Well he has 1000 ships now on the show, so figure how many can fit on each ship and thats the size of his forces right now. I imagine its more than 20 pirates per ship, and google suggests a smaller ship would historically hold 200-500 men, but I'm not an expert on this matter. If that were correct, he could actually have somewhere between 200,000 to 500,000 men, in addition to the forces Cersei already has...and with Randylls help, she will have a very sizable army to at least stall Dany until season 8.

Danys dragons are the deciding forces however, as they could easily wipe out Cersei's forces. If only Euron had a way to stop them...............................

Randyll Tarly, Sam's dad Yep but he didn't have much time to muster as many troops as he could have. Yeah he did.There is no way he has 200,000 to 500,000 men, that's more than all of the armies in the WOTFK combined. I'm also fairly certain that 1,000 ships was hyperbole.Ahhhh, thank you. For some reason I thought he said he had 1,000 ships when talking to Cersei, or maybe I'm confusing that with the recap. With the way the writings been heading on the show its hard to tell if its a hyperbole or just plot magic. In the books it does say the Iron Islands has around 20k, so bookwise you are right there, but if he does actually have 1000 ships after the fact Yara took a good number of his men, that would mean the crews per ship are pretty dang tiny. Also the books note that Greyjoy ships tend to be much longer than those in other fleets, so I imagine the show will just throw what ever number they want because they don't care, nor will they be able to show them all on screen anyways.

You probably read a fanfic somewhere and you got confused there is no such chapter.That... certainly has not happened yet. Not even in the sample chapters. And is unlikely to ever happen, because we no longer have a POV in Sunspear. I'm pretty sure there's no such chapter. It might be someones prediction on TWoW that you've read somewhere.Yeah, you're just confused. Quentyn dies in the last few chapters of *Dance*, the news hasn't reached Westeros yet.Agreed, although Hotah may return.Man I'm so behind the times.... Even though I just read this I'm drawing a blank. Last I remember of Hoath is that he was getting to know the new envoy from King's Landing... How do we know he's not returning?I'M FUCKING TIRED OF SEEING THIS. BECAUSE THE FACELESS MEN USE FUCKIG MAGIC. DO YOU THINK JAQUEN ONLY CHANGES HIS FACE AND NOT HIS HAIR AND VOICE AND HEIGHT, PROBABLY FUCKING NOT. BUT ITS FUCKING MAGIC FOR A REASONDoesn't Dany having 3 dragons make her too powerful too?

Yes the FM have a code, but Arya is not no one. She is still a relative weak girl in a straight up confrontation.>If not, then Arya is now the most powerful (living) person in Westeros and can kill anybody she wants. She could disguise herself as almost anybody and show up to murder all of the Lannisters without much resistance. Then, if she wanted, she could disguise herself as an Unsullied soldier and kill Dany.    
    
You do know her brother is an all knowing telepathic nature wizard right?She can't disguise herself as anyone. She has to kill them first, and presumably remove their face. I thought that was clear enough. Walder Frey was a grumpy old man, and it's probably realistic that she could assassinate him. As for invincible... She still has to be able to beat people in combat or plan wisely to stealthily kill them before using some kind of glamour magic to use their face. People are really over reacting about Arya. It's a fantasy show with essentially zombies, dragons, gods and possessing animals.Well considering she needs the face of the person she  wants to turn into there's some barriers to her being able to kill whomever she wants just by turning into their closest ally Are the Faceless men not going to start tracking her down? I can't see her get away with killing the waif and high tailing it to Westeros without any consequence.. also, her interaction with the Lannister guards was interesting, it almost seemed like she was going to kill them all, but then she found a bit of humanity.I am starting to be very concerned that she is going to die.  Maybe she will try to assassinate Cersei and The Mountain kills her.  The unexpected death of a main character with seemingly unstoppable plot armor, who is acting like she's totally unstoppable, is right up GOT's alley.Putting poison in some wine is not limitless powers Christ.>  don't they have limits and have to work within the boundaries of the Many Faced God

No, as with all of the gods in the story, there is no evidence that they are real at all.

> Isn't there some kind of balance between lives owed / lives saved which keeps the FM more or less under control

Balance determined by what? The faceless men have a religion of sorts, but there isn't some force balance.

> If not, then Arya is now the most powerful (living) person in Westeros and can kill anybody she wants. She could disguise herself as almost anybody and show up to murder all of the Lannisters without much resistance. Then, if she wanted, she could disguise herself as an Unsullied soldier and kill Dany. 

Correct, but she won't do most of that because she has a conscience. I'm not sure why you'd bring up Dany--Arya has no interest in Dany.Super tinfoil hat time...Arya will be the valonqar. She will kill Cersei disguised as Jamie (most likely) or TyrionYou can look forward to her getting knocked on her ass in KL. Specifically Qyburn Sciencing the shit out of her plans. Between FrankenGregor, Tyrions mind, fire visions, dragons sense of smell, etc... there are plenty of people who wouldn't make an easy meal> She could disguise herself as almost anybody 

I'm 99% sure that they have to be dead before she can take their appearance.  And I don't think that it's a supernatural power so much as a bit of a glamour/magic along with a preserved face.  In the books there is a scene where the faceless man who is training her demonstrates the ability to make his face look like a corpse with worms crawling out of it, as well as one other glamour perpetrated by another character with magical powers.

> and can kill anybody she wants. 

She's not invincible, just well-trained and able to change her appearance.  You'll notice that she waited until everyone was dead to pull off the mask last night.  Any one of those dead Freys could have charged her, thrown a weapon, or done something else to hurt her.  She was very careful to make sure that she saw everyone drinking.  She is a highly skilled assassin who also happens to be a water dancer, but she can still be killed.

> but the writers are almost giving her invincible powers to turn into anybody she wants and murder entire bloodlines. I get it, she trained with the Faceless Men and acquired supernatural abilities, but don't they have limits and have to work within the boundaries of the Many Faced God?

They do, and I'm sure that before the series is over we'll find out that she's going to pay a price for getting her revenge.  But it's also worth noting that there are a finite number of people that she wants to kill.  The current list is:

* Cersei
* Illyn Payne
* Melisandre
* Beric Dondarrion
* Thoros of Myr

Honorable mention going to The Mountain (who for all most people know is dead) and The Hound (who Arya believes is dead).  Still, I suspect that in the end she's going to pay a heavy price for what she has done.Arya having the ability to shape shift and murder with impunity is hard to believe, meanwhile the NK can raise people from the dead as wights, dragon fire helped create valyrian castles and a god has brought Jon Snow/Beric back from the dead, numerous times I might add. 

I think that anything is possible in this universe, especially when it involves a religious cult out of Bravos. And it's not like this is really out of nowhere, she's been on her own arc for such a long time, and people wanted the FM story to have some sort of meaning. And here we are, she's now an assassin following her own rules. I'm in...I thought her move to mass murderer was out of character but they needed a way to take the Freys out of the story like last season with Dorne. I know there are a lot of divergences between the book and the show, but for book readers, the FM definitely do not simply shapeshift into other people.  They only change their faces and there is some craft to it as well.  It's not just magic.  So for Arya to have pulled this off so quickly after killing WF is hokey at best.

Also, can someone explain how Sam survived the White Walker parade at the end of season 2? :) I agree with the craziness of her limitless power she now has. But (hopefully) they will correct this by making Arya believe that she is invincible. Because of her believed invulnerability, she will make a near fatal mistake due to hubris. Possibly when she is close to killing Cersei and the Mountain figures it out (I don't believe he is just some dumb zombie killing machine). Then she will either have to realize that she is not all-powerful, switch up her strategy, or something else. I agree.

Kinda hope the FM send someone to come after her or *some* sort of challenge comes her way.  Seems a bit odd to me that a guild of people who can kill anyone and presumably have members stationed throughout the realm would just sorta let Arya run away with no consequences.They have to get it under control. They never showed us how she learned to pull off these magic tricks yet suddenly we are to believe that Arya can not only change her face, but also her voice, hair, body and height. That's a fucking stretch if I've ever saw one. It already happened in the season 6 finale and now it happenened again, but much more obvious and kind of lazy. 

Look, fuck the Freys and all that. We all waited for some Red Wedding revenge. But somehow, not like this. I don't know about you guys, but neither Arya killing Walder last season nor the massace last night really left me satisfied. Problem is that if you keep pulling "cool stuff" like that out of your ass, it doesn't have much of an impact anymore. 

The Red Wedding for example, while horrifying and kinda traumatic, was brilliant writing and a logical conclusion to an arc that stretched over two seasons. There was a build up, foreshadowing, back and forths, scheming and planning. Then it happened and became television history.

Compare that to last nights scene. We already know that Arya killed Walder so most of us probably realized pretty quick what's gonna happen next. But it all went down so fucking quick. Like, how and when did Arya learn to basically shapeshift? How did she know which wine to poison? Where did she get it from? Did she made it herself? When did she learn this? Are there no guards? Why did nobody come into the hall after hearing dozens of men screaming and falling? 

This sort of lazy and illogical writing just takes away from something that could've been a really sweet, satisfying and important revenge scene. Yet it just had little to no real emotional impact, at least for me. It didn't feel earned, it didn't feel clever or pleasing. Which is a fucking shame if you think about it.I always took it as she's kind of taken the powers of the FM and gone rogue with them. She not operating under any sort of rules the FM would usually adhere to. 


I'm kind of torn. On one hand, I want her to use her new skills judiciously because it's more fun to wait for her to bring them out. On the other hand, she's suffered so much I think it'd be really fun to watch her kill everyone and everything. I can just foresee a scene where Jaime is fucking cersei and then all of sudden he just stabs her right in the chest. 

Holy shit. What's going on?

Takes off face. It's arya.

This sub, "Does the faceless man magic let her have a penis?"
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*You know what I mean I'm not complaining about it being unrealistic, I'm saying that it's lazy writing. With the route their going all they have to do is bring her to a new location, imply a bunch of prep work she did off screen and in between episodes, and then boom she can kill anybody. I mean she had to have impersonated Walter Frey for a week right? In between when she killed him and had the second feast. And then sneak around acquiring the poison and getting it mixed with the wine at the right time. And nobody will notice that Frey is any different the whole time. True, but still when you play the "6 degrees of separation game" its pretty easy to find a link to whoever you want. At least to become a commoner/soldier to get close and then kill the person you need to become to reach your true target. I mean Arya just became one anonymous servant girl and was immediately alone in a room with WF. She could get to Cersei pretty easily by becoming a "little bird" informer and then killing Qyburn to get to Cersei. I think Jaqen H'ghar knows she can't truly be no one until she's done being Arya and after she finishes her list she can repay the many faced god by pledging her service to him and that's why he planted the seed all the back in Harrenhall Agreed. And don't call me Christ
But she can make her own faces now? That give her the voice and stature of the person ? It's not limitless but how did she learn to do that? > They do, and I'm sure that before the series is over we'll find out that she's going to pay a price for getting her revenge. 

This really has to happen or the writers will have made a complete mockery of all the discipline and order that the FM preach upon all their apprentices. Their entire order is based on service and putting aside all personal history/grudges, which is precisely the opposite of what Arya's doing now. And it's not just like she left the FM and is taking on her enemies with her own physical skills, she's actively taking advantage of the face-swapping and magic that she learned.

> I'm 99% sure that they have to be dead before she can take their appearance. 

You're right, which is why I was careful to say "almost" anybody. But it's not really that far off. She can pretty much work her way into any setting with either an anonymous face or one of the many people that are dead. Ie- disguise as a "little bird" to get to Qyburn, kill him, and then immediately get to Cersei. Or come back as Ser Meryn. Or whatever. When they give her that wide range of powers it's pretty easy to envision anything happening.

> And I don't think that it's a supernatural power so much as a bit of a glamour/magic along with a preserved face.

At this point I can't see it not being supernatural. She even grew to WF's height, hair, hands, and his exact same voice. And she presumably had to pose as him for at least a few days considering that she had murdered him a week before. There's definitely some pretty strong magical elements to it, to say the least.I'm not saying that it's unbelievable within the universe, I'm saying that it's just lazy writing. I'm all for the fantasy elements and magical aspects of the show. But just having her teleport to her enemies and killing all of them within a 5 minute scene is a major injustice to the normal quality of the storytelling.Yeah, I agree. Much like Dorne and the end of the FM training, its just a way to quickly close up the loose ends. I feel like a lot of the stuff we will see in the next 12 episodes are going to be very "fan fiction-y", much like Arya poisoning all of the Freys. The same reason the white walkers followed Mance's army all the way to the Wall but didn't attack.Same reason the kid survives in the very first scene in the show.  They don't kill cowards for some reason.There's directors notes on it somewhere, iirc they basically saw him as a weakling / non threat and let him live, probably to spread fear among the humansWights don't like the smell of pee? I had the same question. She had a moment last season where she got too cocky - she got stabbed. And yet, though Jon still flexes his burned hand in ADWD, Arya heals in the span of two episodes and it's never going to be mentioned again.>Seems a bit odd ..would just sorta let Arya run away with no consequences.

they already did?  she walked into the temple with the waif's head and declared herself to be Arya and the FM were all like (shrug) "cool."Especially after spending like 2-3 seasons of buildup for Arya's training, it seemed ridiculous to just have her pop out of nowhere at the end of last season to kill WF. And doubly ridiculous to have her pull the same exact stunt in this season's premiere. Even WF (Arya) said it himself when he acknowledged that the Freys are probably confused why theyre having yet another feast right after having the last one. Us viewers are asking the same question to the writers.

It's almost as if they forget to include her story and had 30 minutes to write in her scene and were just like "ah fuck it, just have her shapeshift into WF and then murder the entire family within 5 minutes, and without any buildup". We've come a long damn way from the days of intricate storytelling and shocking conclusions like the Red Wedding.> yet suddenly we are to believe that Arya can not only change her face, but also her voice, hair, body and height.

this happened right in front of us earlier in the show.  The faceless men switched bodies several times and it was full physique.  the old waif became jaquen at the end of s5. she didn't drink any of the wine and told the girl not to drink any either. She poisoned all of it.

But i agree with you on the rest. She prematurely left her training at the house of black and white, but now she appears to be an expert assassin/faceless man. 

I'm confused how all this is gonna work. Does she have some anonymous faces at her disposal in a pouch or something so she can sneak around? Or does she have to kill someone before she change into anyone?I mean when you get down to it, the scene last night was a waste of time (outside of adding action to the episode and providing an easy cheer moment) in a show without much time left.

I just find it funny how the Freys were essentially ignored for 2-3 seasons, they off them with a 5-10 minute scene out of nowhere last season, and then they pointlessly reiterate that 5-10 minute scene. 

Not only didn't they set it up in a satisfying way, but they doubled down on the unearned payoff. It's the result of the show going for shocking badass moments instead of the realism George focuses so much on. > Like, how and when did Arya learn to basically shapeshift? How did she know which wine to poison? Where did she get it from? Did she made it herself? When did she learn this? Are there no guards? Why did nobody come into the hall after hearing dozens of men screaming and falling?

Pretty much every one of these questions and more was spoken aloud by the people at my home while we were watching lol. The whole thing had no impact, it seemed more abrupt than the killing off of Doran, and it didn't come off as a surprise at all. Somebody else said, 'well I guess that means the Riverlands are no longer important to the show whatsoever.' Hard to disagree.

Perhaps it made the re-humanizing of Arya scene later with the last kind sweet Lannister lads on all of Planetos slightly more effective, just because of the contrast and a desire to believe it lol. I'm not really into borderline omnipotent badass Arya.I mean, this is a payoff of a three season arc where Arya (starting at the end of season 4) has been on her own timeline learning to do what she just did.  That said, I agree that the pace of the show is quickening beyond my liking.> They have to get it under control. They never showed us how she learned to pull off these magic tricks...It already happened in the season 6 finale and now it happenened again, but much more obvious and kind of lazy. 

I'm pretty sure that the Faceless Men sent her out into the city at least once wearing someone else's face to do a task.  If they didn't in the show, they certainly did in the books.

> yet suddenly we are to believe that Arya can not only change her face, but also her voice, hair, body and height. That's a fucking stretch if I've ever saw one.

In the books it seems like it is part a disguise, part a "magically preserved face" of someone that was dead, and part a glamour (in the magical illusion sense of the word).  She doesn't get taller, the glamour just makes it look like she's taller.> Problem is that if you keep pulling "cool stuff" like that out of your ass, it doesn't have much of an impact anymore.

See also: Daenerys seeming to be hype all the time. Every time she's on screen, it's like the showrunners are just oozing hype, trying to get audiences excited. It's why she seems to have the last scene in over half the episodes in the past couple of seasons.

But like you said, when it's cool and hype every second, it doesn't have an impact. It would be much more impactful to build to a few really hype moments, than to have Daenerys say or do something "hype" every time she's on screen. It just gets old.Yeah but the powers the FM have are at the mercy of the Many Faced God. The show universe has made it clear this is some full-out shape shifting into different bodies, and is basically a supernatural power. So logically that power is granted to her by the MF God and the FM made it clear that's who they serve. They constantly reminded her of the lives "owed" to the MF God and that they are subject to its will, and were terrified of its power. So when she just goes full rogue and ignores all guidance it's reasonable to believe that the MF God will strike down on her.I think the idea is that she's driven by justice kind of like how Harvey Dent is controlled by chance, but we'll see if that's how it plays out. I'm guessing her definition of true justice changes a bit.For real. It's fucking magic. Literally, in that scenario. I mean.......Does it?While true I still feel like it takes quite a bit of effort to do so I imagine when she was made to clean and process bodies as part of her training with the many faced God, they taught her the technique used to create the faces/masks. 

Her training was fully finished by the end of S6, she just chose not to join the many faced God, and to reclaim herself as a Stark. That is book vs. show though. I agree that her healing was quick. However at this point, with magic undead armies marching, dragons, and other crazy things, we are asked to suspend our disbelief on certain things. I think that is just one of them. Hubris always has a way of kicking you in the nads tho. That sequence of events from last season is almost unforgivable. She gets gutted with a knife by the Waif, and jumps into a dirty ass river right after and next scene she's running around the city again and taking on her trainer in hand-to-hand combat, in the dark, and wins. The same trainer that had been kicking her ass every session they had together when she was at full strength. And then teleports to Westeros and murders WF. It's not only lazy writing, it doesn't make any sense.That's true. How and when did she learn this though? Seems like an important training scene to leave out. Yeah, that's a good point. In addition to the "Arya is kind of overpowered and they need to dial it back a bit" point. They really have been doing very abrupt things like this for the sake of removing a plot line from the show. Comes off very strange. More or less, I would say that you can feel the hand of the writers much more than you should. Rather than considering why things happened in universe, it's too obvious why they happened outside of the universe.Yeah but she has no real understanding of how any of that works. In the books it takes like 2 or 3 people to get her all kitted outFor real. At this point the majority of her screen time is spent gazing smugly out into the distance with dramatic music playing. Trying to milk out the "oh shit, the Mother of Dragons is in the zone!" sensation way too much. Especially because Dany has caught on so much as the pop culture icon of the show, you can tell the writers are trying to cash that in as much as possible. Especially to the vast percentage of the viewers who don't really have much in-depth background knowledge of the plot or characters.The story just seems to be accelerating too fast.  This episode seems like 10 pounds of content shoved into a 5 pound bag.  Jaqen (or whoever that was) willingly let her go after her training. it may never be explained in the show, but there's a lot of speculation around the crown owing the Iron Bank pretty much everything and this is the way they are going to ensure that the unpaid debt is punished.

the more farfetched theory is that Jaqen / MFG / FM have a different plan for the realm and are basically acting as good guys, which has no basis or proofinb4 erotic fan fiction It somehow gave her Walder's wrinkly old man hands. Who knows?( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)yes. Faceless man magic penis growing powers are all too real and something worth exploring in the show.

The questions we're all dying to have answered are, could Cersei get pregnant while she's being fucked by Arya/Jaime? And if so, who's child would it really be?I agree, but my biggest gripe is that they haven't included any of that effort in the show. They cut straight to Arya making the kill, out of nowhere, and it feels cheap and lazy. Her murdering the entire Frey family should be a huge deal but it somehow ends up feeling like a footnote in the episode. I know they're working on very limited screen time for many concurrent plot lines but there's no suspense at all with her story. They basically did the same thing to start season 7 that they did at the end of season 6, which was Arya assassinating somebody at the Twins feast hall after disguising herself with another face. All of it is just so rushed and unexciting IMO.This.  Also, this is just my headcannon, but I believe the showrunners have decided to portray adding a face to the wall in the House of Black and White as the ultimate test to become a Faceless Man.  Arya learned all the skills along the way (mostly off-screen), completely screwed up her two assigned missions, but ultimately succeeded at adding a face to the wall, which is only done by the Faceless Men.  In performing this simple task, her training became complete. 

Actually, in S6E8 "No One" right before the ridiculous chase scene, the Waif goes on this Bond-villain rant about how neither she nor Arya can change whose life is granted to the Many-Faced God.  She then says "... no one can."  I know this is a stretch, but I don't think the use of "no one" is accidental here.  Sure, the simplest interpretation of this statement is the literal one: literally not a single person can change who gets killed.  However, to make the episode better in my head, I think this particular line of dialogue is important because Arya in fact **does** change whose face gets added.  The Waif was supposed to kill Arya and add Arya's face to the wall, but the reverse happens.  Arya becomes No One because "no one" can change whose face is added, and once this happens, she can serve the Many-Faced God however she sees fit.  This last part is never explained, but show-Jaqen is oddly satisfied with her decision to become Arya again.  It's almost as if that's the outcome he wanted all along.  Like, "Just add a face, dammit, and you can kill everyone you ever wanted to kill."

Again, is this a stretch?  Probably, most definitely.  But, it does streamline the whole Braavos storyline to one purpose - add a face to the wall.  Fortunately/coincidentally/conveniently getting to the point of adding a face to the hall of faces will likely take so much time that you learn all the skills and tricks along the way.  I wish they could have explored this more in depth, but oh well.  Taking out the Frey's was pretty sweet. They shouldnt have shown her stabbed the way she was but everything else makes sense. Arya knew she was wanted by the many faced God, and instead of staying in hiding until her ship back to Westeros, she flaunts herself around the town on a long sightseeing stroll, which was out of character. She wanted to be attacked, to lure the waif to a battlefield of her choosing. She acted like her injuries were worse than they were to lure the waif into a false sense of security. Consider that she smears and drips blood everywhere to lead the waif to that room, and that she has her sword hidden there. Remember that she was rendered blind as punishment by the many faced, and had to continue her training in darkness. She leads the waif into the darkness because she's now able to take the upper hand and beat the waif, despite being worse in combat than the waif. I thought it made total sense.  > More or less, I would say that you can feel the hand of the writers much more than you should. Rather than considering why things happened in universe, it's too obvious why they happened outside of the universe.

That seems to be more and more true. It is impossible, in show, even if Arya was somehow the best student ever produced in Braavos, to explain how she impersonated the very heads of the Frey House for weeks, while preparing her murderous family reunion. The logistics are mindboggling. The whole thing was a writers' decision from completely outside the world of Riverrun.
We're well ahead of the books at this point.  We have no idea how much additional training she has had that wasn't shown.  I wouldn't be surprised if she was significantly more capable by the end of The Winds of Winter (incidentally that was the title of the Season 6 finale, as well).I wonder if after Dany's initial hype, she will experience the depressing drudgery of conquest. Remember the post conquest of Mereen hype with the crowd surfing? This was followed by seasons of her realising that hype only lasts so long, and gives way to difficult administration.god the music. they play it every time she steps off a boat now. 

WE GET IT DANAERYS IS THE CHOSEN ONE. GIRL POWER YA. 

can we maybe get some of the budget shifted to the Ghost line item away from 1980s metal era black leather now?> Especially because Dany has caught on so much as the pop culture icon of the show, you can tell the writers are trying to cash that in as much as possible.

This is evident every time she is on screen. She comes on screen, and they might as well put the text "get hype" on the screen, because that's almost always the whole purpose of her scenes.Really? It seemed slow to me.  very little actually happened other than Arya's spree at the start. everything else was people talking around issues and giving each other meaningful looks.  nothing was decided or developed. Dany's, and the child would be Tyrion. Don't you know about the time-travelling fetus?These are the questions that I care about above everything else You make a very valid point but I do think this is kind of on purpose to make up for Arya being in braavos for 2 seasons They went full ***YOU GO GIRL*** mode in this episode. I'm very liberal and even to me it felt so forced that they're trying to send a message that *"yeah! girls are badass too!"* even more than before. The scene at Winterfell with Lyanna Mormont/Brienna/Sansa telling off Lord Glover about girls being able to fight, and the camera giving a close up to them all looking at each other and smiling was cringe-worthy. GoT in general has been extremely empowering of strong female leads and they've been some of the best characters (Cersei/Dany/Arya/Sansa/Margaery/etc) but they don't have to shove it down our throats.I'd say the Hound had some development. all i gotta say is that Danaerys better live up to the hype, this is getting ridiculous. i'm a dude and have no problem with strong female chars (Brienne...) but they should actually *do* something. all the swells of epic music while the characters are not really doing anything smack of pacing and directorial issues.yes, this was a notable exception.  I really liked the hound's scenes, and he was very compelling. The death of the Frey's, to me, is the perfect tonal setting.

For the whole show, the bad guys have been winning. They take shortcuts, break alliances, connive, cheat, and then they win.

This is their comeuppance time. The good guys are going to start winning. They have completed their training montage and the shortcuts the baddies took keep coming up bad for them.

This is a happy season in that sense. I believe this season will have the Night King remain a looming and present threat, but primarily be about the people still squabbling, and that the bad guys will lose - and the next season will be the bittersweet ending as the real bad guys show up.i liked the opening with frey fest.  if it is anything to go by, this season isn't screwing around.  it's ready to slaughter people in terrible, unforseen ways.  ending it with dany asking "shall we begin?"  was as directed to the audience as it was to the people in the room with her.  when you consider what is shown in the trailer for next week, i plan on this season being pretty ridiculous.I think it was a good idea to put the Frey massacre before the title sequence because the rest of the episode seems to be set about a month later.I agree the pacing of Arya's attack was bad (all the scenes were good but the order gave me an awkward feeling). I think the problem is that many episodes end with Daenerys and they didn't want to change that. In the grand scheme of the storytelling I think the Arya bit was hard to include too. It was kind of a "state of the world before the start of season 7" : house Frey is dead instead of what could have been the focus and incredible moment of an episode.  
It's probably because HBO want to tell the whole story and there is not many episodes left. They spend the episode tightening the plot with Daenerys; John and the long night (Many references to links between daenerys and john) and couldn't focus on Arya.They started with the Frey scene to trick us into thinking it was a flashback, mere weeks after the Red Wedding. It'd be the only way to not entirely suspect it was Arya until her choice of words began to give it away.The episode was good
I am disappointed that the white walkers are just using horses instead of Giant ice spidersDid anyone else think they were going to waste good time on a short season with a recap at first?I wholeheartedly agree, and would also add that watching the army of the Night King slowly amble toward the wall would have been an amazing cutaway while the Hound stared into the fire in the dead farmer's house.I don't agree. First, this wouldn't work with Arya's other scene. Second, the transition from Sam and Jorah to Dany was one of the slickest they've ever done. And third, using that as the cold open made it the single best opening to an episode or to a season. Also, I really dig how it ended. Yet another "epic moment" ending is par for the course, but this was both enticing and different. Se..the thing is i think Dany's scene could also served ad the season opener..."Shall we begin", and then opening credits..but Arya's scene indeed serves a chronological aspect, because after we see Jaime and Cersei talking about the freys dead.

Arya amazing scene could also be served as last scene..but i think since that was Dany only season on the episode it amade more sense that way..I can't agree. Dany saying shall we begin was completely badass and a perfect end to the episode.How did you not realize it was Arya from the first shot? I think that was the point of putting Walder's throat being slit as the last shot of the 'previously on". I disagree, I think ending with Dragonstone was the kind of editing you need on a season opener. The problem with this is that Jamie references the greys mid episode, thus aryas part had to be at the end. I'd say start with Dany as you suggest, but end with the march of the Night King.I personally think the White Walker scene should have been first. But that's just me.It *was* a trailer episode in that it gave us an hour of catch up, but no real focus, and i think we needed that, but somethings gotta give or we wont get anywhere till season 8.No.  Opening with Dany stating "shall we begin" and never returning to her for the whole episode would have been a horrible decision.  But Ed though...I find it funny so many people are shitting on this idea, because if the episode actually went in the order the OP suggested, everyone would be calling it fucking brilliant. 

*"ZOMG Dany's cold open saying "Shall we begin?" was so badass! Can you believe that ending? All the Frey's are gone! Much shock, much wow! 11/10"*

If we are going to look on the episodes back to back for the sake of continuity, I think it would be weird for S6E10 to end on Dany commencing her sail to Westeros, and then opening S7E1 with her immediately arriving there in the first scene. They have to make it look like it takes at least one episode to sail from Essos to Westeros.I enjoyed the many parallels to season 1, like Jon and Sansa walking the battlement where Ned and Cat walked. These elements tied it all together, tied s7 to S1 in a surprisingly neat way.

I enjoyed the Sandor=gravedigger hint 

I have no idea who the fuck Ed Sheeran is. Or why he ruined the episode

It was too stagnant an episode

I both liked and disliked Euron's scene

Arya will choose to go north no doubt

It was unfortunately for the series that always surprised me, predictable. I understood immediately that Walder was Arya. I said "To kill the queen" before Arya said it. 

Euron's gift: dragon horn

Obsidian beneath Dragonstone = zzzzzI thought it was a great episode, not sure why people are complaining. I totally agree, and scoffed pretty heavily when D&D were congratulating themselves for deciding to cold open on the Frey scene. Awesome scene but it did not need to be up front. For TV you had to do the Walker Frey scene before the credits. It would have had his name in the credits and ruined the fact he was in the show. Just like Jorah's return was ruined by the credits and why the Hound's return came before the credits as well.Disagree. Arya was basically just tying up a loose end from last season. We already know the Freys are fucked. To end another episode with "The Freys are fucked: Part Two" would make it feel like the plot isn't advancing.

I mean, how will the next episode end? It turns out one of the Walders survived... he was in the restroom. Will he escape? No! Arya emerges from the shadows behind him and stabs him in the neck! End of episode 3. Dum dum da da dum dum da da dum dum...If they removed the Frey pie scene from the previous season, (and just her kill the sons instead), then this opener would have been book worthy.  

You'd be looking around at the servants to see who Arya was who might be poisoning the wine, but surprise! She's Walder. I love the idea of this but as many have pointed out not sure if it would work with the timing of other events although I think a few simple changes to dialogue would have done the trick

We left last season with dany so it would work from that perspective and I think I would be a lot more hype. As it stands I thought the episode was good but not he pay off from work those scenes would have worked better if they switched well for one i had mixed (not so much) feeling about the content than the episode.The Arya thing definitely needed some set up/context. It was a great scene but it was also pretty close to suspension of belief territory because it came out of nowhere. 

I'm still wondering about it. Did she just lounge around wearing Walder's face and body for 2 weeks while she plotted her final Frey revenge? How did she poison all of the wine? 

Personally I would have ended the show with the shot of the Army of the Dead. Dany does her "shall we being thing" and then we cut to the frozen waste of the north and watch the others approach closer to the wall, zoom in on the zombie giant and fade to black

I don't think it could have been done like that in the format. Most people I talked to thought is was a flashback until the big reveal. I think that would have been lost with an entire episode of present day leading up to it.They had to shoehorn Ed Sheeran in there and couldn't do it if that was the last scene. Totally disagree. Having Dany land at the start and have her disappear for the rest of the episode would of been foolish. 

As a set up episode, ending with her made the most sense. Opening with the Frey thing makes the most sense for two big reasons. One is that it's supposed to feel awkward to start, like the audience is supposed to think "is this what happened right before Arya fed Walder the pie?" and as the scene goes on it becomes more clear that "Walder" is saying some weird shit and then it makes sense that it's actually Arya. Secondly, the scene with Ed Sheeran and the Lannister Band was too important to leave out, as it's the groundwork for Arya to realize that it's only the power players at fault for the mess, and not the everyday soldiers who are just told what to do, which is different than how she had seen the ruthless Lannister men at Harrenhal. Because that scene is so important and reflective it would have made zero sense for her to go back to kill all of the Freys.Admit it, though, OP:  This is all just because you think it'd be neat to have the 'begin' line lead into the intro.People rarely ever view episodes in context but rather as in a vacuum. The last scene was better to depict where we were headed than the Arya scene, and also the last scene was perfect for being the last scene IMO because [of this shot](http://imgur.com/WGj5lKL).

A lot of scenes in the show (and in the books) are meant to be re-watched and re-read. But that wouldn't have conveyed the timeline of events as well. Arya's scene established that some time had passed. Each subsequent scene pushed time forward a bit more.I felt that S7E1 was just to get people caught up, get some of the "game pieces" in position. Arya's scene was just to close out S6. Dany's final words were to get the *real* season started.What pacing issues do you think there were? Why do you feel the one-liners would be enhanced by switching the scenes around if they're both still the  beginning and end scenes?I thought the pacing was fine. I loved the Ayra cold open. I thought the Dany scene was a strong closer. Also, I think the scene with Cersie and then Euron needs to happen before the Dany scene. She needs to be seen as a potential threat, not a realized one, for those two scenes to work.The Frey toasting would have been a great ending for Arya in the last season. Just replace her cutting Walder's throat with that, so we get a 'oh shit, that's Arya' moment and not sitting through the scene thinking 'ahhh, I see what's going on here.' Mayhaps include a line of her asking the Freys how they are liking the meat pies they're eating.It would have been weird for Dany not to have any scenes after the opening. imo dany's storyline has just been flatout boring - objectively, since season 4; subjectively, forever - so i didn't expect them do anything interesting this episode with her either. she gets the throw-away, cliche line. not to mention a queen being the first into every room rather than soldiers clearing the building, and her entire crew standing silent for a dramatic shot as they land at dragonstone? weird.

plus, somehow her entire, massive armada missed euron's massive armada right near each other? somehow stannis, tywin, tommen, and cersei left the dragonstone unmanned, despite jaime talking about its strategic advantage? dany's storyline really needs to pickup, because its becoming unwatchable and kitschy.I disagree, this is only the second cold open they did, and starting with Walder gave me enough pause to wonder if it was a mini-flashback to show some other aspect of the feast that ended last season. I know it only throws off book-readers a second or two, but it was really effective for the non-book-readers I watched with. Putting it anywhere else in the episode wouldn't have that effect IMO. Also as others have pointed out, it would've been awkward to have Dany say "Shall we begin" and then not see her for the next 40-something minutes.I thought the Dragonstone scene was perfectly placed because despite everything happening in the episode, it was just getting started.  this doesnt need its own thread. there are already threads discussing this episode. your thoughts are no more clever than the others (less so, in fact).I guess you know better OP. I thought it was pretty damn good the way it was. You people are fucking ruthless!I think we need to wait Season 7 Episode 2 to really judge the pacing of this particular episode. Almost certainly, Dany's story will be the most prominent thread of that episode so it makes sense for her thread to finish Season 7 Episode 1. "Shall we begin" thus being the narrative bridge to what happens in Episode 2. Arya's thread in Episode 1 definitely felt appropriate as a bridge between Season 6 and Season 7 in my opinion. 

I think I disagree, the scene at Dragonstone was perfect for ending the episode. The whole thing reminded me so much of the ending of The Lion King, with Simba coming home and climbing Pride Rock... Very much a sense that the rightful rules has come home at last. It was a very powerful note to end the episode on.Since the episode started with the Frey scene, I first thought it was a flashback scene at first. If the Frey scene were later in the episode after a few present day scenes, I wouldn't have thought flashback at all and wouldn't have felt that twist to the scene.Haha you're right. Maybe that's what felt odd to me about the episode.Podeswa is not a strong director. Your idea is really better. They could have taken the tedium out of Dany's walk with a nice Benny Hill style chase all around the beach and the castle. That would have been tits.The pacing in Danys walk and Sam's poop montage needed to be cut. Both were way too long. And I think your idea about switching the Arya and Dany scenes is great. Would have worked much better.wow this is actually fucking genius. we need someone to edit it!!When they did the cold open with the Hound they did it because seeing his name in the opening credits would spoil the surprise of his return.

Could have been the case here as well although I am not sure Walder shows up in the credits usually.Yeah, but then you would be waiting all episode to see what they are planning in Dragonstone.As soon as the HBO static sound thing was done, I was so hoping for the GoT them song to begin. I hope for the final season, the first episode does that. No cold open. 
I would have like to see it open with Dany's boat reaching the shores and showing her army storming the castle (THAT SHOULD HAVE BEEN MANNED!).

Then end the episode with her confidently walking through the "battle" (it wouldn't be much of a battle), and into the throne room.Wouldn't make sense. We see Dany say "shall we begin" at the beginning of the episode and then don't see until ep2? Yeah but then we wouldn't have yet another episode that ends with Dany.I totally disagree because the Dragonstone sequence was a pretty great short film on its own and because it was the culmination of a character objective that hit print 20 years ago.  Putting it at the end of the episode gave it the emphasis and impact it deserved.

But I'm upvoting you anyway because I like remixes of the content and your thought experiment is a provocative and interesting idea.  It also looked repetitive because the last time we saw Arya which was the last episode before this, we had another Frey slaughter with the same trick. Not that Dany wasn't repetitive with her "Shall we begin?" line either. That's exactly what she said in BotB episode too.I think it might have been weird to put Dany's first because if the cold open ended on "Shall we begin?" I would have been waiting the rest of the episode for Dany to show back up. I like the opening with Arya as a wrap-up for S6. I think the ending was fine. Need to end on a jumping off point like Danny at her old home rather than fixing a loose end, which is what the Frey massacre was.

Plus, if you end with the arya massacre, then you push back her story even further. That whole scene with her and the soldiers would have to be next week.Yeah but then the lannister soliders scene will have to move to episode 2It would have been better if there was no cold open and it just started with the Army of the Dead bringing the storm and had Arya's scene after Winterfell.Why? Varys went from Dorne to Meereen in the same episode. Although I guess the ships could've picked Varys up and then swung north. But it's still Meereen to Dorne somehow in one episode. Ed Sheeran was the redhead Lannister that was singing when Arya rolled up on her horse. He's a popular singer/songwriter type.

I don't think he ruined the show at all, myself. I thought it was tastefully done.If you have no idea who the fuck Ed Sheeran is then how did he ruin the episode lmaoAt Winterfell, Ned/Cat and Jon/Sansa watched three people. 

Ned/Cat: Jon, Robb, Bran
Jon/Sansa: Brienne, Pod, Tormund

Does that mean Pod will be the next 3ER? Tormund the next King in the North? Brienne betrayed and stabbed??If you do that then you are left with the little scene of Bran at the wall totally out of context even worse than it was.

They used the Night King scene to set up the situation with Bran and Meera, and to build up the later scene with the Hound looking into the fire.

Those two scenes don't really work if you have the zombie army scene at the end.

And yes the Arya/Walder scene was really out of context and no buildup or anything to it, but that's actually the only way to do this without spending a couple of episodes showing her plan coming to fruition as she walks around as Walder Frey being a dick to everyone. They needed to show her slaughter the entire male Frey line without spending too much time doing it and resorted to a bit of "handwaving" to do it. The scene turned out ok, and instead of having it as a mid-season shocker they used it as a season opener which really was a bold move and shows how pressed for time they are really.It's probably indicative of the next episode focusing on her arc more closely so yeah makes a lot of sense.I liked it for the reason that it showed that despite everything and having murdered an entire house basically, she's not totally psycho. She considers how easy it would be to kill those guys, but opts not to after they show her nothing but kindness. 

The role of Ed Sheeran could have been done by anyone and I honestly don't think it matters that it was him and he fulfilled his part the way it was supposed to go. It was well directed and delivered scene that shows that Arya is adversed to indiscriminate killing, and has a certain Code, her list from previous seasons and she's trying to stick mainly to it. I wouldn't be surprised if that's the case next episode. The previously segment will end with that line and the credits will kick in.I think the first scene sets the tone, that the bad guys will start having hard times, and the final scene sets the plot, which is that Dany has some conquering to do.I just realized something from that shot.
It's like she's talking about playing a game on a board.

Let's begin would work as a good cold open to start the season because this season is going to be defined by danys invasion. The Arya scene ending the episode is way more bad ass. Its just a better way to end the episode in my opinion because it's fucking awesome and hype. Danys scene isn't that cool of an ending but would have sent chills if it happened before the opening scene. Sorry, real quick: What is a cold opening?> I disagree, this is only the second cold open they did

Off the top of my head, didn't the re-introduction to The Hound episode, the re-forging of Ice episode, and the pilot episode all have col opens?Yeah I totally agree. I heard they put the Frey scene as a cold open because David Bradley just nailed that scene (he did) and they wanted it to be front and center. Plus, putting it later doesn't follow the rest of the narrative. Other characters mention the Freys being gone multiple times, so it had to go first. And no one is freaking out that Dany is on Dragonstone throughout the episode, so they would have had to change everything. You couldn't just switch the scenes and have it make narrative sense. I can't believe so many people are saying this would be a good idea. Just looking for something to complain about I feel like.Why is a Targaryan the rightful ruler? She would have to conquer Westeros through conquest. I honestly never, ever expected to see GoT and The Lion King compared ever. Let alone for it to be totally correct and relevant. Have an upvote!While I agree that's what they were going for, it didn't really translate to me. Like, we knew it was going to happen. There was no way it wasn't eventually. And that it was so calm (abandoned?) made it underwhelming to me.Podeswa wouldnt get to decide the order of the scenes. Why aren't we doing this. Get this man to HollywoodThat montage is getting a lot of love on this sub, but I think it was awful. Totally inconsistent with how the show has been filmed, and just absolutely bizarre. I think the poop montage wasn't long enough.That's fairYeah it makes quite an impactAll the smallfolk deserted, presumably after all the men died in the Battle of the Blackwater.  Stannis took his host North.  Whoever stayed behind then would have ransacked the place, and flitted.  Yeah the anti-climax was really strange. Like, she has her ships! her army! she waltzes into her castle.... wait what?But what's the point of having a fortress manned if there wouldn't be a significant fight there?Tyrion's dramatic pause.That was one of the best scenes in the series. The long silent walk from Dany, and her advisors following. Even Mel holding Greyworm back. Then "Shall we begin?" 

It also served to emphasize the roles of her team. Tyrion slightly ahead of everyone else shows how important he is. It shows the respect he has from the others as well.Did you think about it in the context of, "Shall we begin?" DUN DUN DA DA DUN DUN...

I think it's a really compelling argument.I can understand dragonstone being, as you put it, the objective of 20 years, but being at the end of the first episode didn't do it justice. What if last season had ended with that? Then the objective would have felt like it. In this scenario. it felt like a stepping stone since we hadn't seen her working for it since last season.Right, and having it as the final line emphasizes it enough to slap it on some merchandise.I personally just think they should have opened with the White Walkers scene and kept everything else the same. 

I wanted a return to the season one style opener where they showcase the real big bads of the story. There is also the mirror of, after the cold open, us starting with the White Walkers on the move, preparing to attack Westeros, and end with Dany arriving at Dragonstone, preparing to attack Westeros.Well, they could have dropped the other Arya scene in the middle of the woods with Lanister men and added something from the next episode with Dany & Co. 

It wouldn't have made sense in chronological order that Arya would be south of the Twins after killing Lord Frey, and then back at the Twins to kill the rest of the Freys.They've could've just as well taken whatever scene Dany has next week and put it in this episode then pushed Arya's camp scene to next week.

I like the idea of Dany being the opener. The lack of dialog makes it seem like the episode was written that way but they made a last second change.Also, one of the reasons Cercei and Jamie are looking for allies is because the Freys are dead. There's a chronological aspect to think of. Totally agree. It would have been a weird way to start the episode only for Dany to not feature prominently in the episode. Precisely what I was thinkingI'm fine if it doesn't happen, but I'm anticipating and hoping that each episode is of a similar fashion. With fewer episodes per season I'm hoping each one packs a bigger punch and the premiere didn't disappoint. That entire glorious walk for Dany was fucking perfect. Despite less time this season for story it didn't feel rushed at all.Good god I hope not to have to watch another one of those scenes with her and the solders. Think we don't need the soldiers at all, frankly 
That was there to give Ed Sheeran a role & that's about it Plus the Cersie and Jamie map scene has to get pushed since he brings up the dead Freys.I am going to disagree a little with the prevailing theme that this was a good episode. Who in their right mind actually thinks that a castle will be unprotected/abandoned?? How after not hearing the castle is abandoned do the the Lannister's not immediately send a garrison to the one of the most defensible positions in the 7 kingdoms?? I think this is an oversight on the show's part which they should have set up in season 5. I get that they don't have a major budget to show a battle, but this is where i think a battle needs to happen off scene. With the camera panning in showing Dragon's cleaning up the mess with fire, and the unsullied have breached the castle with the help of Dragon's. Dany lands on the beach with almost the same takes, but she is walking up with scorched earth and bloodshed all around. As she takes it all in she remembers her house words "Fire and Blood" then she says "Shall we begin?" I think this would have shown further character progression and realism. That scene didn't even have to exist 
How about we just have 60 minutes of the others and The Hound **just fucking shit up!**>It would have been better if there was no cold open and it just started with the Army of the Dead bringing the storm

I dunno man, that sounds pretty cold. :Pidk it might be awkward to juxtapose Jon's "dont punish the children for their father's actions" speech with "Arya ends an entire bloodline"He's saying he dunno why other people think he did Almost definitely IMO. The episode description and the fact the episode is called "Stormborn" would lend itself to this as well. A game... of thrones...A scene that plays before the opening credits.When a show begins with actual content instead of its usual opening theme song.The re-introduction of the Hound is what I was referencing, but you're definitely right about the pilot. I was misremembering/mangling something D&D said in the little episode extra after the Hound's reintroduction. 

I'd have to rewatch for the re-forging of Ice, it's possible it was pre-credits, but I don't really remember it. Either way, we're still talking about something pretty rare (either 3 or 4 out of 61 episodes).She doesn't have to be the rightful ruler! And she isn't even necessarily the *best* ruler, given her inexperience with Westerosi culture, the question of what will happen to her armies if she succeeds in conquering, and the fact that she just doesn't seem to be very good at ruling in general; she's an excellent conqueror, but not so good at the part that comes after that.

That being said, the narrative of the show is making a serious effort to present her in a certain light and, as I said, it reminded me of a "rightful heir returns to the throne" scene in a different movie. That doesn't mean the trope won't be subverted later on in the show (and this is Game of Thrones, so it probably will be).That's interesting, the calm was what made it special for me! Looks like it was a hit and miss sort of effect.A director does, you are mistaken. And indeed his episodes are among the poorest rated. But it was funny. If there is one character you get probably get away doing that montage with, then it's Sam. Yeah we didn't really get to know all about the plumbing and the diet that resulted in the massive use of chamber pots despite those huge toilets.Leaving the castle abandoned so Dany could just walk in and take it made no sense. It's an incredible strategic location. If Stannis wouldn't keep some men there to hold it then, in the least, the Lannisters would have sent a small army to take control of it.

Since the show obviously has a budget, there didn't need to be a significant battle shown. But, it would have made way more sense for there to have been someone there to provide resistance to them.Episode 2 opens. Dragonstone. 

Tyrion: ... yes!I just think it would've been kind of cool if we saw a small skeleton crew holding the castle. Have them take a look at Dany's army and dragons and decide to open the gates for her and immediately bow instead of fighting against impossible odds. It all could've been done wordlessly, too, with some worried looks between some guards and a sorrowful, knowing nod from the Castellan to whoever physically opens the gate. 

They could've been Lannister or Stannis' soldiers. Either way, it would've shown that a lot of men will be willing to fight for a cause, but very few are willing to die for it when there's nothing in it for them. If last season had ended with that, the neckbeard nitpickers would be complaining about Dany "teleporting" across the narrow sea. Showing the boats and then going on between-season-hiatus at least made it feel like a journey.

Also, Dragonstone pretty much is a literal stepping stone! That's the whole point of it, to be a launching point for an invasion of the mainland.> What if last season had ended with that? Then the objective would have felt like it. 

instead of the cliffhanger ending on the fleet?  I like it very muchI feel it was important to have both Arya scenes in the same episode.A lot of fans already think this is the Jon and Dany show. I know we were all itching to see Dany finally make landfall but I think it was a good decision to let other characters feature prominently for an episode.In the behind-the-scenes or whatever after the episode D&D mentioned how they didn't originally plan to open on the Frey scene, but after seeing how amazing David Bradley(Walder Frey) acted in that scene they decided to open with it.

I didn't even think about the scene with Dany being a candidate for the opening scene, but now that I think about it I agree. It would have been a cool way to start the season. They would have had to shuffle some things around, as has been mentioned, but I could see it working well. The opening scene with Walder's speech and "The North Remembers" got me so hyped I screamed, though, so I think D&D made the right choice, because putting Dany's bit at the end got me excited for next week more than I think the Arya scene would have. Plus David Bradley acted the **HELL** out of that scene too, so it was a great way to send off Walder Frey and start the new season.That fucking letter was *SO* lame: Snow, come over! we have cake! Seriously! ASSHOLE!~~~  
  
It was like straight up from drunk texts.That would have been so easy to solve. Just change the dialogue to 

Jaime: "We still have the Freys."

Cersei: "How good are they? They lost a castle and we had to rescue them. They are useless morons. They are as good as dead." *...bonus points for foreshadowing.* 
Yeah and I think Arya has a lot of ground to cover this season so they gotta keep her moving Easy enough to change it from "the Freys are gone" to "the Freys are worthless", which Jaime already believes.Didn't even think of that. And there's no way they can leave Jamie and Cersei out of the premiere. Definitely didn't humanize Arya right? People were so shocked by a familiar face they barely paid attention to the scene itself.Someone mentioned in another comment that it might not have actually been abandoned. It couldn't have a had a ton of people living there, but a few squatters makes sense. Instead people got the hell out of there when they saw a fleet of ships and three dragons coming towards it. That's my personal headcannon.Yeah I agree.  Theres a half-dozen empty castles presently.  I mean, Storms End has been empty for years, no talk of the Dreadfort, now someone has taken up Dragonstone finally, but now we have the Twins and Riverrun kicking about too.

Also if I were a smallfolk near Moat Cailin or Harrenhal or maybe even Summerhall, I would be getting a working bee up with the neighbours every weekend so we could time-share something that wasn't a rubbish, single-roomed hut.

A shocking disregard for prime realty if you ask me.It was extremely common for castles to be abandoned or unoccupied historically speaking. It was actually most often that castles were unoccupied and maintained only by a small staff.Yes, lets abandon the westerlands and kings landing to hold a castle that NO ONE IS COMING BACK TO!  Its not like we were just in a devestating war that sapped the manpower of the realm.

Literally, a handful of teenagers are all House Lannister can muster to protect the Riverlands after house Frey is compleatly wiped out.

But you expect them to go ahead and garrison Dragonstone?

I doubt they can garrison the Red Keep right now.While I agree that it is pretty dumb to show the castle completely abandoned, I think it's ultimately a very minor gripe in the scheme of things.  

I do think it could easily have been fixed by showing them kill the 30 soldiers or so that reasonably would have been left behind, but it really isn't too bad upon further inspection.  

It's not as stupid as Unsullied whipping their spears about instead of staying in formation and using their range properly to prevent being slaughtered by a bunch of dudes with short knives in PJ's, for example. I'm up voting you only because it is valid to say what you have said. I completely disagree for similar reasons that others have gone into. But I don't think you deserve to be downvoted for a differing opinion.I think you're forgetting it's winter. Winter is kind of a big deal in this world. WAY more so than our world.Or just a quick scene where tyrion convinces some lord that he has 3 choices: Die in a seige, get beheaded by cersei for treason, or join the dragon queen.  Not only would it reinforce Danny's trust for her new hand but it would show other lords that the new regime is accepting pledges of loyalty.People who complain about this episode because the castle was unguarded are spoiled children.  Specifically, these children: http://i.onionstatic.com/avclub/5328/63/16x9/640.jpgSay you're the Dragonstone garrison commander. A best, given the wars thus far, you probably have a few hundred men at your command. You get word that a huge fleet carrying a Dothraki horde, an army of Unsullied, and THREE DRAGONS is headed straight towards you.


Do you attempt to fight? Or do you flee to the mainland and join your strength with the bulk of the Royal forces?I thought Jamie summed it up pretty well in the map scene room.  They are pretty much struggling to defend kings landing as is.  Theres no way they could send out any type of army.  I think Jamie is making the better move.  

In your scenario you're sending out people to die, or fortify KL for the impending attack.  I agree that Dragonstone being abandoned made little sense and felt weird. However, I don't think it was enough to derail the entire episode. THERE IS NOTHING ELSE THERE. What are you going to do for food? What are you going to do in the Winter? What are you going to do when the Iron Born get there? Any Lanister ships would still be right around there to protect the water, even if they aren't set up on land yet. There are people there in the books, it just speeds things up to let them get there and take over.The Lannister's army has to depleted and be in disarray. Sieging Riverrun, keeping the peace, protecting Casterly Rock, and a whole mess of other things are keeping the army busy. I honestly don't think they have the men or ships to hold an island with no natural resources. 

The place is empty because there's no reason to be there except for an invasion. 

Dany has been chilling in Mereen for a while now. I doubt they expected her to invade. 

It's definitely an oversight, but not a huge oversight. Especially with someone like Cersei ruling. All the military minds are dead. Fair point, but the likely explanation is the Lannisters are spread too thin to go defend an island without a lot of strategic significance. They've got to occupy the Riverlands for the dumb Freys now, Highgarden and Dorne are hostile, the Eyrie is ostensibly joined with Winterfell. Sending a bunch of troops to go fight dragons for a small island seems like a bad idea.I think it was very important. It shows us several things:

a) Lannister soldiers are still human, have families and can be nice people

b) shows us that even though Arya just killed 40 people, she doesn't just murder people for no reason

c)we learned that she is going to KL

And overall it was a very nice human scene that is needed in the show in the middle of all the war and magic shit going on. It's a very important scene, it changes arya's intentions to go to King's Landing and kill the queen to go to Winterfell with his family.Awkward or thematic?

And it's not as if the Frey's Arya killed are innocent of their father's crimes.Not really. The show is already showing you the juxtaposition between the Stark girls' outlook on the matter and Jon "The Bastard"'s outlook on it.A huge number of Freys were actually complicit though, it wasn't just Walder himself.  And they all cheered about slaughtering the Starks.It almost seems relevant to the story.....naah probably just tinfoilery.5 scenes:

White Walker contact in S1E1.

The aftermath of the Battle at the Fist of the First Men, in S3E1.

Reforging Ice, in S4E1.

The Hound Returns, S6E7.

And Arya wipes out the Freys, S7E1.


pilot? Did we get to see that one?It's a strategic position if you have ships and enough troops to hold it. Otherwise it's just a really fancy looking starvation chamber.Cersei was busy planning a giant explosion and Jaime barely returned to Kings Landing and found out his son committed suicide, who exactly was supposed to be watching Dragonstone? Especially when they see three dragons and a giant army of dothraki coming at them? Makes more sense to regroup at KL and try to defend that than die in a totally pointless battle over a dead kings castle.I think it would have been better dramatically, but then Euron would have sailed by Dragonstone in full view of Dany's fleet.  I think they want to hold off on the naval battle until further into the season.People remember episode enders just as well as openers (Viper and The Mountain, Arya going to Bravos, Melissandre old lady thing). 

I feel like the "Let's begin" would capitalize on what everyone is thinking: Let's get some real shit started. And everything after that would be seen as movement toward larger machinations.

This episode has been criticized for being uneventful. I think some stuff did happen but to end the episode with "alright now let's start the show," it puts a sour taste in people's mouths. If the Walder moment had been at the end it'd be the cherry on top.Never wine and raven.Oh come now; you know that if D&D put in a foreshadowing line as blatant as that one, this sub would tear them a new one for “bad writing” and lacking “subtle nuance”.I don't remember that, when did they lost a castle and when were they rescued by the Lannisters? I should probably rewatch the show as there are a lot of changes with the book.Yeah, they probably needed to put the scene with the Lannister's soldiers so in next episode or two she can already get close to King's LandingWell it wouldn't be as urgent to find new allies if the Freys were still alive. Now we know the Lannisters are literally alone defending the crownHowever, even with Ravens, information and military intelligence do not move instantly. I think the books do a better job of this. It's likely that even with patrols on the Eastern coast of Westeros, that Dany would land on Dragon Stone before Jamie and Cersei would learn of their landing."The final season of Game of Thrones has been postponed for 5 years while D&D try to deal with chronological issues and untangle the Freyed knot"That's all I wanted out of it.  A token surrender by a token garrison. 

Actually, I lied, I also wanted some feel of Stannis' presence.  The man ruled the island for 20 years, you could at least show some of his (and the Red Woman's) impact on the place.Now that is funny.The Dothraki would be absolutely useless in assaulting Dragonstone, they wouldn't count for anything. The dragons would destroy the place if they were fully unleashed. Leaving Dany with no base of operations in Westeros. 

The Unsullied would be able to take it, no doubt, but how long would it take them? Everyday that Dany sieges Dragonstone not only eats into whatever supplies they have, but it also gives the KL defenders more time to properly prepare.I play Crusader Kings, I know the obvious answer is to run to your doomstack and start intriguing a death of the invaderNot to mention that the garrison is defending the castle of a dead king, even further reducing the appeal of dying for it.Look at the map of Westeros man, Dragonstone is KL's first defense from invasions from the East...Fortifying Dragonstone IS fortifying KL.Yeah I really don't understand why this is so hard for people to believe.>What are you going to do for food?

Onions.

>What are you going to do in the Winter?

Eat onions.

>What are you going to do when the Iron Born get there?

Pelt them with onions.ABSOLUTELY.  This is up there with the most annoying "not realistic" complaints (read: neckbeard nitpicks) for the show.  Everyone's so eager to nail the showrunners on having done something "unrealistic for the sake of drama" that they don't take five seconds to think of reasons why it's probably more likely that Dragonstone is abandoned rather than manned with Twentygoodmen^^TM.

It's a fucking enormous castle in a volcanic island with no farmland.  Even if you had only a few dozen troops there, they'd need to be supplied pretty regularly, and the Lannisters are in no position to be sparing ships to supply a castle that doesn't offer much strategic advantage you don't already get from Driftmark.  All to what, have these troops surrender the moment any serious invasion force comes in because nobody is going to die for the sake of delaying an invasion force for a few days?

> Who in their right mind actually thinks that a castle will be unprotected/abandoned?? 

Castles get abandoned all the time!  They're an enormous resource drain to maintain, especially if they're out in the middle of the sea with few easily accessible resources.Looks like those Unsullied are going to have to learn to fish. ASAP.There's even less reason to put troops there if they expected her to invade. You're basically saying here's x number of Lannister men for dragon food, welcome to Westeros. You'd have to put an entire army there to defend it from dragons and that would still only slow her down. I'm not sure it's even an oversight. It was barely held in the books and in the context of the politics of the Westeros on the show, I don't think it would be unreasonable for Dragonstone to be abandoned after Stannis left several years ago.That makes sense if the a huge plot point of season 2 wasn't that Stannis controlling Dragonstone gave him the ability to launch a quick attack on KL when he chose.

They've stated a number of times the significance of Dragonstone and it's just ignored.

Also, I don't care how stretched thin you are, this isn't Sunspear... err I mean Dorne. By now in the world of the show there have to be a lot of reports that can't be denied from numerous sources that Dany hatched 3 real Dragons so you want to give her a stronghold where she can launch air attacks on KL if she so chose with little to no warning?I totally agree, that there are reasons the castle may be abandoned, but even in the books the castle is not abandoned, and there is a force of men loyal to Stannis. We are totally forgetting that this castle was abandoned before the events of last season. Before the Lannisters were stretched thin. The Lannisters could definitely afford to send 100 or so men to man that castle's defenses...It would buy them valuable time to prepare KL. It's not even about the Lannisters. 

You'd at least expect there to be squatters.Strategically, Dragonstone is fortified and controls the entirety of blackwater bay. Which means naval power and trade. It's pretty important, in normal times. Maybe more so in times of war buuuut the royal fleet is non existent, trade is down, and manpower and resources for Crownlands is way down with enemies on all sides. 

So Dragonstone is very important but Cersei has fucked shit up so much it actually falls way down on the list of precedence. Go figure.Normally I would disagree, considering even a relatively small force can hold a highly defensible stronghold like Dragonstone for a long time against a much larger force. However, Dragons really do change the game here. I don't think the Lannisters would have any real way of combating them without spending an excess of resources. That being said, I do think sacking/razing the fortress once they saw that Dany was coming could have been a strong move if they were going to abandon the place anyway. You're rightArya's finally grown up to be a fine young manIt's meant to be a token hand offered to pull Arya out of her darkness. It's almost a reversal of Sandor's scene in the episode. He's facing up to the consequences of his actions, whilst Arya is being presented with hers before committing the crime, so to speak.

It's purposefully meant to be a humanising scene and one that makes her feel less like a terminator. But even with that in mind, there's no evidence that it changed her mind. In fact, I'd go so far as to say the scene wasn't necessary because she spent 3 seasons travelling through the war torn Riverlands. She's seen the consequences of actions like her's already, and thus the scene could be accused of beating a dead horse.I honestly want the reuniting of the starks most out of this story. Always has been really important to me. Let Cersei be and see your family damnit!Maybe, or maybe it just made her consider that not all soldiers and Lannister men are terrible. She decides these people are not people she needs to kill. You may note in the beginning of the scene she is noting where all of their swords are as if considering whether she can pull off killing them, and by the end of the scene she is laughing with them. You may be right, but you need to be right for the scene to have significance. I don't think Arya's changed her mind yet, but it planted the seed. The scene was much more important in having Arya humanize the "enemy" Lannister soldiers. Hopefully it keeps her from going full LSH, and keep her revenge tour a little more tightly focused.Did it? I must have missed it, but I didn't think she changed her mind because of them[deleted]I think it's telling that Arya is heading South instead of North after killing the Freys.  I'm not sure she knows who is alive or who isn't and what exactly is going on, but she is way more intent on getting revenge than on protecting or reuniting with family.

As far as what she knows about the goings on a Westeros, it's interesting that Cersei already knows that Jon has taken Winterfell and that Sansa is with them.  But Sam doesn't seem to know that Jon was killed, resurrected and is no longer the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch.To be fair, it's kinda rude to go to a party and shit all over the hosts manifesto.Yeah, I think a lot of people are missing that because I keep seeing it brought up.  Pretty sure Arya said in her speech, "the men who helped me slaughter the Starks at the Red Wedding".  These were guilty men. Riverrun. It was given to them, they lost it to the blackfish, and Jaime had to come in and get it back for them.After the off-season and the E2 preview you still think she's going to actually go to King's Landing?With Ed Sheeran, Arya is unstoppable. ...you bald cuntD&D joined the Frey in that battleI hope we get in the books the Frey civil war... pls"D&D, have you finally solved it?"

"Afraid not."You got his war room.Okay, let me rephrase. You're the Dragonstone garrison commander. Probably some third-rate Lannister shit head who's never accomplished much of anything. DRAGONS ARE COMING to kill you. Are you going to think rationally about this?http://www.moviedeskback.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/07/Game-Of-Thrones-HiRes-Map.jpg

Its not that close but again Jaime summed it up.  They don't have the logistics to support even a campaign on land in Westeros.  Trying support a small to medium sized army on Dragonstone seems like a losing effort from what we heard them say on the show. It's hard to understand because they're actually putting some thought into the show, instead of blindingly defend everything it does.I don't understand how people don't see Dragonstone as the single greatest defensive position standing between Dany and KL...They could have booby trapped the whole place, burned doors, leave nothing but ash.This is nonsense! Dragonstone lies in the very gateway to King's Landing...it is the single greatest defensive point between the Lannisters and Dany... What's more, Jamie knew that Dany would be landing there. 

It doesn't matter if the castle has no valuable resources in the immediate area! It has HUGE value as a defensive position. Castles are force multipliers. 100 Lannister soldiers could have made Dany's landing there an absolute nightmare. Yes, she has dragons, but consider what unleashing her dragon's full potential would mean. Dragonstone would be another Harrenhal, then, blasted and melted into a ruin. It would dramatically reduce it's value to her!

I think the cries of this castle being completely unoccupied are entirely valid. I find it kind of funny that people are trying to defend this...Pirates would still use it as trading post or a smuggler's den at the very least.Why wouldn't Euron swing by leave a quarter of his forces or something on Dragonstone to defend and then offer it as his 'priceless' gift? Any entrepreneurial lower lord with some ships could've reasonably made a play imo. >Castles get abandoned all the time! 

See; HarrenhallIn fact, I think it's incredibly reasonable and expected given the context of events as depicted in the books and in the show.

Stannis leaves to go north -> he leaves a skeleton crew of men behind to serve as a garrison -> Stannis is killed/army defeated -> word trickles down to Dragonstone that they're defending the castle of a dead king -> "this place sucks, i'm tired of the rocks, i'm tired of the salt air, why are we even here?" -> garrison deserts -> other shit is going on in the Seven Kingdoms = abandoned Dragonstone.Show writers are trading realism for simplicity in this case. It's just tits and dragons anyways though right?Because the scene would have been so much better with squatters running all nimbly bimbly while Dany and co. slowly and solumnly ascend the steps into DragonstoneMost squatters would see a fleet and dragons coming at the castle and, hopefully, be smart enough to leave asap.Except the Lannisters don't have a fleet currently and you need to supply Dragonstone. It would be a waste of resources. She's gonna man it without a proper fleet? And when someone comes to lay siege to it... with dragons... those people are fucked and hold the gate for like 11 minutes.

Dragonstone's only useful if you also have ships. If you have no ships then it's a boondoggle.Also are you really expecting Cersei fucking lannister to think strategically about what castles are worth holding? The woman who has managed to get rid of every single one of her allies, and gets her entire fleet stolen in like a month in the books?The place looked pretty sacked imo. Chairs and stuff strewn about. And Dragonstone seems like a difficult place to "raze", given that it seems to be made almost entirely out of stone carved into a mountain...The scene was great! She sized them up with here lying game skills and her superior observation skills taught by serio and more so by the faceless men and decided they weren't murderers and rapers just men ordered to keep the peace who miss home, only then did she accept guest rights (food from them) and chose not to kill them all.Yeah I don't know where the fuck some people are getting these silly ideas from. If Arya decides to just stop with her vendetta because some Lannister soldiers were nice to her, that would completely undermine her whole arc. If she's just gonna be like "meh, fuck it" then what was her journey all about? None of it will have mattered, and she would have spent years training and suffering for nothing.I think that seeing that they talked about their families and one of them said her wife just had a baby made her think about her family and now she is heading to winterfell.I think he has quite a fitting look tbhWell i thought it was funnyI don't think it bodes well for her, especially given Sansa's Ned quote in the promos. But they never had control of Riverrun, didn't they? Or was that changed in the show? I know in the show Blackfish was in the Red Wedding as opposed to in the book were he was in the castle from the beginning, but I thought he escaped the same night and arrived at Riverrun before the Freys were even there.I don't read off-season spoilers, so I don't know what you're talking about.  
And I don't see anything in the E2 preview implying she's not headed towards KL.I'd watch the adventures of Ed Sheehan, Bronn, Arya, and the Hound. Singing and stabbing their way through Westeros. I can't upvote this enough*high five*We could assume that Jamie would send a useless shit head to command the garrison on Dragonstone. Or we could assume that he asked for 100 brave volunteers and a veteran commander who would make the best of his situation.

Also, see my many posts on why it would be a very bad idea for Dany to obliterate Dragonstone with dragonfire.Well, of course they would lose ultimately. That's not the point. The point would be that the men sent to this castle would be there to hold Dany's fleet down as long as possible.

The Lannister army consists of thousands and thousands of men even with the losses they've suffered over the course of the series. They could absolutely spare 100 men to go to this castle. A single ship could transport them there and keep them supplied. This isn't a huge logistical investment, but it's a HUGE defensive payout. 

From a military commander's POV, this is a no brainer.But they don't know when exactly Dany's arriving. They'd have to garrison men there for a while and send loads of supplies to them, which would be extremely costly for them at this time. And if Daenerys sees that taking it would cause more trouble than it's worth then she could just ignore Dragonstone and head straight for King's Landing which would have much fewer troops defending it.Naval battles are very reliant on numbers. Suppose Dany and Eurons fleets would be a coin flip in a full scale battle. If he leaves a hundred ships, those hundred ships will be wiped out by vast overwhelming numbers by Dany's fleet (and dragons) and then when his fleet comes full tilt with Dany's, he's already a hundred ships down and she's lost considerably fewer. Now the coin flip is 60-40 in her favor.Because he didn't think of it?  Because he didn't know it was abandoned?  Because he didn't know it was the likely target of the Targ invasion force?  Because for most lower lords don't have the resources to stock up and man a desolate castle on a barren volcanic island?  

Because absolutely nobody in that god damned continent thinks that--after years of war making resources scarce and an incoming winter that's going to more than decimate the population--it's a good idea to be making "plays" for castles on the off chance it could curry favor with a quickly declining crown?Probably because his "priceless gift" is going to be something that actually drives the story forward, like idk, a dragon-controlling horn or something. Just came up with that myself. Someone tell GRRM.Harrenhal was abandoned because it is a ruin, and a supposedly haunted one at that, not because it has no value.Also: the Nights WatchAnd like 10 Night's Watch castles along the Wall.Unless they were hanging out inside the castle shooting the shit. Nobody knows Dany is coming back with dragons, so that point doesn't matter. Besides, even if a token garrison would be wiped out immediately, it would have been interesting to see how Dany deals with them. Does she show mercy, or start exterminating everyone she sees as a usurper?I've mentioned all that in other posts. As it stands for cersei, it's indefensible. But that doesn't make it any less strategic.No, but Jaime would have absolutely thought about it. Further, as soon as Stannis declared his rebellion, the Lannisters would have given Dragonstone away to a bannerman, much like they used Harrenhal as a reward for service. And if not the Lannisters, surely a bannerman from the Riverlands or Aerie would have garrisoned it in the name of their respective lords.

GoT was built on the political and military machinations of seasons 1 and 2. There's absolutely no way all of Westeros leaves an incredible fortification like Dragonstone completely empty.She's got this. Just one more glass of wine, first, and she'll handle it.First of all, Cersei isn't dumb, she's unhinged. That sometimes leads to dumb decisions, but she herself isn't dumb. Another thing, the show made a point out of showing Jaime and Cersei are aware Dragonstone was the first place Daenerys would seek out upon reaching Westeros, which means they either decided to let her have it because of logistical limitations, or they have some sort of plan in place relating to it, and the other shoe is yet to drop.I guess we don't know to what extent the land is actually abandoned, but by sacked I meant more like gates taken off their hinges and then destroyed, wells poisoned, nearby farmland salted, etc.  

It also wouldn't have been too hard to make holes in walls at key places, encourage mercanaries/squatters to move in, or even just set things on fire. Even if the place is largely stone, there's plenty of stuff there that can burn - any denial of resources to an enemy is useful here, especially considering it wouldn't take too much effort relative to how much trouble you cause. If done right, any of these could be a significant setback for very little cost. Plus scorched earth seems very much in line with Cersei's MOThey could have at least booby-trapped it.It's not about changing her vendetta because the Lannister soldiers were nice, it's about planting the seed of "home" back into her mind.

Remember when she left the Faceless Men last season? Her exact words were:

> A girl is Arya Stark of Winterfell, and I'm going home

The whole campfire talk was about home, and being with family. From the fisherman boy talking about being with his father, and the newly minted father wanting to be back with his new child.

They even talk about how when they were back home, all they wanted to do was leave, but now that they've been gone, all they want now is to go home.

The whole scene is to remind Arya that home was what she wanted to be from the beginning. Not in Kings Landing, not in the Riverlands, but Winterfell. I'm sure once she finds out about Sansa and Jon, if she hasn't already, that'll solidify her decision to return. God I hope episode 2 starts with her riding off after killing all the Lannisters in their sleep.  I hate when shows make radical changes to a character's personality and motivation because reasons.

Arya is a child soldier, a very damaged girl and a killer.  If the show tries to turn her all sentimental I will be disappointed.  It's too predictable.Maybe it's just D&D's way of making her revenge arc a little more tight knit. Closes off a lot of her enemies and it forces her to shoot straight to the top of the list ya know.It's definitely made her think about how not every lannister is necessarily evil.The soldiers were like too nice to Arya, weren't they? I mean, a girl alone in the woods and they invited her to eat and drink with them...Don't forget Gendry, dudes still rowing.Until Brann from Mastodon and the other band mates risen from the dead descend upon Westeros!And eating chicken while doing it!Dammit I was suprised to see Ed Sheeran in the woods. But thinking about it what was the point of giving him a cameo? Is it for the sake of it? He didnt say anything did he?It's not so much what Dany would do, but what they *could do*. Are we certain Jamie is the one in charge militarily? Or is the irrational actor Cersei calling the shots?I could see you make the argument either way but you're also inviting the possibility that they'll skip dragonstone completely and having the full force of her invasion coming to kinds landing with even less time to prepare

Giving up some ground for time to prepare is a strategy as wellGrey Worm and her other military advisors, if they are worth anything, would never let her leave a well defended fortress in their back lines.

It just leaves you too vulnerable.Euron was in KL before Dany set foot on Dragonstone. If you're traveling to KL by sea, you have no choice but to sail right past Dragonstone. He would have seen that the place was abandoned.

Everyone seems to know that Dany is coming now, and what's more Jamie even knew exactly where they would make landfall...Dragonstone. You see where I'm going here? It makes no strategic sense to just give this place to an enemy that is coming to destroy them. Even 100 Lannister soldiers could have given Dany's army hell when they landed on the island.

Furthermore, if Euron is half the badass we all think he is, he should have been waiting around Dragonstone too, he and the Lannisters could have, at the very least, slowed Dany's advance tremendously if they had opposed her on Dragonstone.Jaime and Cersei knew where Dany was going with no discussion.
Given how Euron knows he's headed for a confrontation with that Targ invasion force anyway maybe he might consider where they're headed or what they want?
The Tyrells have plenty of resources and are at war with the Lannisters, but why would they look to secure powerful allies?
And, who would seek more power and resources in times of scarcity? Surely not the good nobles of Westeros. 

Edit: theirI hope that's what it is. My only point is that it's not ridiculous to think the castle should've occupied. Abandoned due to lack of man power, not for any other reason. The castles on the wall certainly don't have any valuable resources to protect around them just like Dragonstone.With the size of her fleet and the amount of time it takes to get from the Bay of Dragons to Dragonstone, there's no way that people don't know she's coming. The news would travel way faster than she does, and Qyburn ought to have little birds in Essosi besides.A thing though to also remember is that Dragonstone, while an impressive fortress, is also a pain in the ass in it's own right. Stannis mentions in I think season 2 or 3 about how during Roberts Rebellion they were eating fish and rats. There's virtually no agriculture on that island, which means supplies would have to be brought in by ships... that don't exist anymore (or are on short supply). thanks to the attack on Kings Landing by Stannis. 

Arguably they could buy food from High Garden and have it shipped there, but that likely would be expensive, and the Iron Bank are right now calling their debts.

Edit: And also, the Lannisters are out of money themselves, as Tywin pointed out to Cersei that the gold mines have dried up.After 6 seasons we should know by now that when show characters do stupid things, it's never because there is some twist or big reveal coming. Every time this has happened, the people giving the show writers the benefit of the doubt are disappointed.She's actually pretty dumb. It may be that the remaining garrison only had a few days notice or less that dragons were coming. Who knows? I doubt lines of communication are working all that well given the chaos in Kings Landing.Who exactly was going to set this in motion? The incompetent small council? Cersei while she was planning out the bombing of the Sept? Jamie who just returned?

I think you are really over-estimating the structural integrity and leadership of the Lannisters. No Tywin, no Tyrion, no Kevan; even when Jamie tries to reason with her, Cersei wont listen.

The simplest conclusion is that Cersei isn't as strong and as capable a leader as her ability to backstab and kill her *allies* would suggest.

She is a weak leader because she's flawed in her own arrogance. She probably didn't even think about Dragonstone, with the machinations of power consolidation taking up all her scheming.That may be so, but if it is it'll be horrible story telling. Her whole arc was never about forgiving and forgetting. She never dreamed of just going back home. She has been all about revenge the whole time. That's what she has been training for.

And nothing happened in her journey to make her "see" it a different way. Nobody ever tried to convince her that revenge was wrong. There was no change of heart, and no epiphany. She just refused to kill innocent people as a faceless man, but Cersei and company are not innocent. She still hates them.

There is absolutely no reason for her to change her mind now that she's back. If having dinner with some Lannister soldiers makes her reconsider, that would mean her Bravos trip is inconsequential filler. It doesn't amount to anything. She could have literally been anywhere else in the world, **not** training to be an assassin. All she had to do was wait a few years and have dinner with the right group of people.

Nah, that's not how her story ends. Fine, make her regret her vendetta later on, but she *has* to see it through. If she just goes back home, you could literally rip out every scene she's been in since season 2 and pretend she was hiding in the woods all this time. You can't just have someone fuck off for 5 seasons and come back unchanged.She literally harps on to the Freys about breaking guest right. She later becomes a "forced" *guest* of a band of perceived enemy soldiers, but upon joining them in their meal sees their humanity. At the same time she obeys the law she herself dispensed (earlier Frey punishment) + assesses the situation as not in her favour (bunch of armed and armored soldiers). It's part common sense on Arya's part and part her character actually obeying her own rules... SO radical!>  I hate when shows make radical changes to a character's personality and motivation because reasons.

Except her being a cold killer with no conscience or morals *would* be a radical change to Arya's personality and motivation. He whole arc last season was that she remember who she was, especially when she refused to kill Lady Crane. She's not a Faceless man, she's not a person who kills without reason and without fairness. She's a Stark, with a clear moral boundary. She didn't kill any of the Frey women at the Twins. 

She's not a ruthless killer. I don't think Arya would violate guest right. She accepted their food and wine.That's exactly why I think Jon should call it quits and open up a bakery with Hot Pie. That would be unpredictable, and as we all know, if it's unpredictable it's good storytelling.I've actually read theories that it was an implied intro to a rape scene.

* War-fatigued soldiers 

* precedent of rape&pillage modus operandi before in the Riverlands by the Lannister soldiers 

* "be nice to strangers and they will be nice to you" wink wink nudge nudge

* getting this random peasant girl drunk 

I don't support it because it doesn't fit thematically, but there are hints.Thats how I saw it as well, i actually really liked this episode because it finally felt like the books where its not bad guys vs good guys and instead showed Westeros as just a big messIt was a jarringly inhuman dimension of kindness. No one in the Universe conducts themselves like that. I think this is another example of the dialogue suffering since D&D surpassed the books and ran out of runway.Not really, more like the TV GoT world is often excessively violent and grim, soldiers are just people and are always going to be anywhere from violent rapist to Sam-like. 

Yeah it was weird that they offered food when they didn't have that much, i even thought that maybe the food was poisoned idk why lolNot everyone is an asshole. Its almost like not everyone is terrible in the Lannister army :)He basically called all the Lannisters (most specifically jamie) dicks in his little song, so  I count that He's also a friend of Kit Harington. Kit mentioned in an interview that he met him in a urinal. While both are taking a piss, Ed looked at him and asked if he was Jon Snow. They became friends after that. I remember reading that he and Alfie Allen were 2nd cousins but I can't find any mention of that again.Well his character did show that not all Lannisters are evil, a lot are just fighting because their lord told them to, fighting so they can keep the bread on the table for their family and maybe earn a little honour or glory that could help them raise their family from poverty or unsuitable living conditions, much like the bulk of every other sides army. It seems like the scene is to help show that Arya has not lost her humanity completely, and that every side is made up of people just looking to keep their family alive. Saying that, it could have been done without ed sheeran and maybe done by any other actor, but guest cameos are a common thing, and what better way is there to have a guest cameo? It showed the Lannister army to comprise of also good people, Arya'a shreds of decency and humanity, and told us that she's heading south, things that could have been done in other ways but seemed to be done perfectly fine in this scene.IIRC it's because Maisie Williams is a huge fanHe had a line or two. He's done a song or two for them before right? I suppose this is just a cool little gimmick, which I found a little jarring but it's still fun to seeIn that scene in the maproom, didn't Cersei state quite clearly that Jamie is the commander of all Lannister forces?I suppose this is a valid point, but I don't think she can afford to skip it, due to it being the only port in the area(outside of KL) where big warships like hers can make port. Crossing the Narrow sea will have undoubtedly taken its toll on her fleet. 

I've made a more detailed post [here](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nxmo7/spoilers_mainlets_discuss_dragonstones_strategic/) if you want to discuss this further. :)>Grey Worm and her other military advisors, if they are worth anything, would never let her leave a well defended fortress in their back lines.

Eh, Robert didn't take it until after he took Kings Landing. 

> Even 100 Lannister soldiers could have given Dany's army hell when they landed on the island.
> 

If you're playing Age of Empires, sure.  In a world where there is any attention paid to human considerations, you'd expect any men you put in there to immediately surrender when there is a massive invasion fleet and three dragons at your footstep.  Hell, any people and resources you put in there you're probably just gifting to the enemy.  You remember Jaime and Cersei explicitly discussed their fear of having their armies desert them entirely like three scenes into the episode, right?Cersei had no clue. Jaime knew, but he's Top 3 military commanders in all of Westeros groomed by Tywin. > And, who would seek more power and resources in times of scarcity? 

That's literally the opposite of what Dragonstone represents.  It's an enormous resource drain that doesn't necessarily have much of a potential payoff for your typical lord, especially when most lords are more concerned with surviving the winter to begin with.  The rest of this neckbeard nitpick requires characters to want to spend enormous amounts of scarce resources on something that may end up being of no value if the Targ invasion force decides that it could use the endless number of landing points and fortifications that Dorne or the Reach provide.Nice rebuttalThat's your opinion that doesn't correspond to the amount of time she kept herself in her position. Her problem, especially in the books is that she's emotionally unstable and paranoid as exacerbated by alcohol and the demise of her children, which doesn't let her be objective when it comes to correctly estimating and dealing with her threats. Still doesn't make her dumb; a thing that probably lends a lot to this perception is that we only got her POV after she started on her downward spiral. If you had her POV in AGOT, she would appear significantly more grounded and calculated. If there was a remaining garrison, they were very small. Most of the place was covered in dust, and they made a point of showing the dust on that table in the "war room", so I think it was just deserted.Don't presume to know GRRM's complete arc for Arya, you are just going to end up looking stupid when he wrong foots you.Correct. The scene was clearly about her realizing there are a lot of innocent people wrapped up in the story of her family and that not everyone HAS to be killed/be her enemy. Definitely a spot of introspection where she learns "hey, not everyone involved is guilty and they don't need to die." Not a spot for her to throw away all her training and go hang out with Jon.Shit, you're right, I forgot that part. I would totally watch that. Exactly! The show has also been presenting violence as a great solution a lot, which is actually the opposite of what the message is supposed to be. One of the major themes are the horrors of war, but we see very little of that in the show; it's always just bad guys dropping dead."jarringly inhuman"? Right. Sure.

No one in Universe conducts themselves like that? What about Septon Meribald/Ray or Shadrich?

These are Lannister soldiers, it's not like they're peasants from the Riverlands struggling to survive. They are presumably well-fed. They can spare a few bites of rabbit to a young girl. 

Not every soldier is a murderer-rapist, but that is something someone like you would believe because the only soldiers you know of are Meryn Trant and Polliver....I disagree you can see arya sizing them up as if she intended to kill them, they offered her food and wine ( guest right) and even offered it before they took any themselves. This is after arya kills the Freys for killing their guests. I thought it was a pretty clear scene in the respect I know, but it's not usual at all in GoTI suppose you could say life is irregular.Its almost like those people are completely out of place in the world established within both the book and the show. Yeah but there's a diference between not being nice and offer food to a total strangerActually the song has nothing to do with Jaime. The song is about Tyrion and Shae when Tyrion was the Hand of the King.Dude you don't make eye contact mid stream everyone knows that!I think old mate crook eye and the other bloke did a better job of showing this than Ed did. I thought it was quite bad actually. After seeing him all I could think of "Oh wow its ed sheeran." and the world somehow lost a bit of reality and took me out of the scene... From the group he was the most clean I think and somehow didnt fit into it. I'd say Cersei would reserve the right to micromanage as she sees fit though ("We don't have the men to spare to defend a *worthless rock in the ocean*, send them somewhere else")

But if we're being real here, there is a finite amount of time available to this show, and they decided that getting bogged down in a protracted siege of Dragonstone was not conductive to getting plot moved along. And since this isn't a show about military tactics, but a medieval drama with bits of action and sex, it was deemed an okay thing to cut out.Robert's force was already on Westeros.You don't seem to understand how defensible castles actually are. Did you not see the entrance into Dragonstone? The long narrow bridge? 100 Lannister men could hold that entrance for weeks, potentially. 

Also, you and many others aren't considering the fact that unleashing Dany's dragons would mean Dragonstone is destroyed and rendered basically useless as a staging ground for her armies. Her army is massive, massive armies need constant supply and logistical support. Which would be impossible without a base of operations. If she let her dragons destroy Dragonstone, then she would put herself in a terrible position. Furthermore, I doubt she would be eager to destroy a fortress that her ancestor built, especially the place that she was born in.

Furthermore, her massive fleet would be next to useless in assaulting that castle, it's designed to withstand invasions from sea. The Dothraki themselves would be useless in an assault on that gateway. Her Unsullied could take it, but how long would it take them? Every day of delay not only costs her resources(food and fresh water) but it also gives KL more time to adequately prepare. 

Not to mention, if Dany's fleet could have been held up sieging Dragonstone then that would give Euron the perfect opportunity to sweep in from the rear and trap them in Blackwater Bay. 

I've spent less than 10 minutes thinking about this situation from a strategic POV...I've come up with all of this in that time. I don't understand how any of this is hard to comprehend.True, good point. >neckbeard nitpick

Never thought I'd see the day on /r/asoiaf where people would accuse one another of being "neckbeards" as if it's somehow bad to nitpick (even minor, perceived) immersion-breaking details in a show adaptation of a book series *written by a neckbeard, for neckbeards.* We're all neckbeards here...this is quite possibly one of the most loyal and engrossed book fanbases since LoTR, these books have driven tens of thousands of hours of theorycrafting, argumentation over minor details, and has the kind of deep and esoteric lore that drives us neckbeards *fucking rabid.* No need for insults.
Don't think it's unreasonable for a sea faring people to want a strategically important island castle. Even if she landed somewhere else she'd want her home eventually. You know, to drain her resources. thanks ive been working outWhat makes Cersei dumb is that she doesnt understand the importance of building relationships or alliances. 

She is super entitled and thinks she is owed things as a Lannister and has no appreciation for the hard work that goes into what Tywin does. 

Her thinking is incredibly myopic and short sighted - she operates based on perceived slights not strategy. 

She has kept herself in power because a lot of the work tywin and tyrion have done but is undoing it super fast with her awful decision making. 

Cersei is sowing the seeds of her own destruction. She always has. Her decision to have none of Roberts kids, kill Robert throw away alliances etc. 

She dumb.Her mental instability and paranoia are perfect for playing and winning the game of thrones. But knowing how to do one thing doesn't make her smart. It's ironic even, because she thinks she's smart because she outbackstabbed everyone.


You could compare her to the saying "Don't go wrestling with a pig in the mudd because halfway through you'll notice the pig actually enjoys it." 

She has a very unrealistic, toxic worldview. And she's dumb afShow =/= GRRM.

And I'm not saying what *will* happen. I'm saying that if this particular thing *does* happen, it will be stupid. I'm not sure why so many people are convinced that making her just another passive victim is the best way to end her story. She's been training to fight since season one.No, no, no. I mean, like, period. Anywhere. Not just in the westerosi universe, like in the universe of human beings. It just isn't how any human conversation has moved in my entire life experience. It felt like I was watching bad acting and bad dialogue. Which I was.

I still thought the episode was good.I think that should be a criticism of earlier GoT more than this scene though.You think the show and the books have established that literally everyone is a murdering child rapist?                                          
>Yeah but there's a diference between not being nice and offer food to a total stranger

There's not really that big of a difference when it comes to medieval customs.She's a young girl traveling alone. They're just being nice...Yea. They are a very nice group of peopleTell that to Ed. Kit even joked that Ed looked at him from head to toe and checked out his dong before he asked if it was Jon Snow. The interview was either with Jimmy Kimmel or some British show. It's funnier when he told the story. That is true, but he still contributed to it, and ultimately the cameo isn't as terrible as others are making it out to be. At least his presence is adding to somebody's arc and a part of the story, even if it does suspend your feelings of immersion for a couple of minutesAre you opposed to all cameos then, including ones with a famous actor in a bit part on screen for five seconds?I don't think I can agree with this. Isn't it the same as any other actor being cast in a role? He is essentially there as an actor the exact same way as any single other person on the show.So famous people aren't allowed to act or cross mediums? I'll tell the Rock, Mark Wahlberg,........ See I have seen this a lot and I really don't get it. Is that specifically because he is a singer not an actor and you don't expect singers to be in shows because honestly I see an actor I like or a know a lot about in a show and it doesn't take me out of it. 

I just get a little hey its ____ moment and move on. They have used so many actors from the Harry Potter movies in Game of Thrones and I never once was like this episode was ruined because Tonks was in it or because Slughorn was in it. It just seems weird that so many people thought Ed Sheeren ruined the epsiode when he only sang a couple of lines and didn't say much after that. I thought "Hey, a Hobbit, wait, this isn't LotR. Oh, wait, it's just Ed."Yeah it was jarring but it was quick, a fun little thing to laugh about whilst watching it. They made up for it with that This Is England guy and his mashed potatoes face, that was a good foil>But if we're being real here, there is a finite amount of time available to this show, and they decided that getting bogged down in a protracted siege of Dragonstone was not conductive to getting plot moved along. And since this isn't a show about military tactics, but a medieval drama with bits of action and sex, it was deemed an okay thing to cut out.

This is fine, I could absolutely accept that it's just a budget thing whether time-wise or monetary.  

I can't accept people arguing that it makes strategic sense to give up such a powerful fortress, though. :PA thing though to also remember is that Dragonstone, while an impressive fortress, is also a pain in the ass in it's own right. Stannis mentions in I think season 2 or 3 about how during Roberts Rebellion they were eating fish and rats. There's virtually no agriculture on that island, which means supplies would have to be brought in by ships... that don't exist anymore (or are on short supply). thanks to the attack on Kings Landing by Stannis.
Arguably they could buy food from High Garden and have it shipped there, but that likely would be expensive, and the Iron Bank are right now calling their debts.
Edit: And also, the Lannisters are out of money themselves, as Tywin pointed out to Cersei that the gold mines have dried up.Your situation would work if you abandon logic on the other side. If everything is about strategy, Dany would have sent a scouting party to look for locations to land. Varys and Tyrion would have advised her where to land. If Cersei knows Daenerys fleet is coming so could Dany know the fleet movements of Euron. If Euron is known to be there then they could have landed somewhere else like in Dorne. Nobody is denying the advantages of castles, just the context under which it would be able to or worth it to defend.  All the circlejerking over the force multiplication of castles negates none of that.People tend to use the information we have and think that all the characters should think like us, but really Cersei's only look at what's going on outside the Red Keep is what Qyburn tells her. It's not that she's not smart. She's just no where near as smart as she believes herself to be.Sounds a bit one dimensional your way. GRRM a pacificist hippy who believes in good will to all men, hates revenge stories, and everyone motived by revenge in asoiaf comes off worse for it. There is no way Arya gets your Dirty Harry type happy ending in either the books or the show. It's just a question of what is that brings her back to the light (or pushes her over the edge into full Darth Arya)Wow, okay. If you have never experienced acts of kindness from other people I feel sorry for you. Yes?  Lol, I can't think of a single band of soldiers in the books or show that hasn't been filled with murderers and rapists.

I'm getting downvoted, but I'm dead serious. Can anyone name one? Maybe the Golden Company in the books? Although that's debatable at best taking TWOW  chapters into account. Since every house that we saw in the opening credits was used in this episode of the show, if we go somewhere else next episode, will the OC change? Maybe its because the Baratheons still have claim to Kings Landing? Cersei only has the throne because shes the only known survivor on the family tree. Gendry being alive and well is a strong contender (for the time being) for that Baratheon claim.It's an oversight. They devoted all of their attention to the Oldtown animation and putting the Stark banner back on Winterfell.Good catch. I guess they overlooked that point. I wondered the same thing but I guess the only explanation is that Cerseis power as queen is derived through her marriage to Robert Baratheon. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*...?There are other lowly Baratheon cousins who would have a stronger claim than gendry. The batatheon house is very large. But the show acts like the cousins don't exist Eh, they already had the Stark banner back for S6E10

Yeah, I'm leaning towards oversight which is unfortunateShe is as much Baratheon as Olenna is Tyrell or Catlyn is a Stark.Are you just assuming this, or are there actually references to them that I don't remember. The only baratheon cadet branches I remember being referenced were stannis and renly, who obviously had no male heirs. Roberts father, steffon, was cousin to the mad king, but no mention of other baratheons. Steffon's father, ormund, had only the one child, so no chance of other branches yet. His father, Lyonel, is the only place where we could really say there's a chance a cadet branch split, as it's not confirmed if he only had two kids or not. But we are talking 50 to 60 years ago now.  But this is a bit different. When an outsider marries a king, the wife or man won't take the surname. For example both Cersei and Margarey kept their house names Lannister and Tyrell, respectively. None took the last name of Baratheon. The change in house name comes only when other lords-low or high- marry. This is why Catelyn changes from Tully to Stark or Ollena from Redwyn to Tyrell or Selyse from Florent to Baratheon. 
Technically, Cersei's Lion should be the official sigil of Kings Landing now. Yes I believe it was discussed in A Clash of Kings when arya met one of Roberts other bastards and he talked about the extended baratheons. I'm not sure exactly where it was but I'm fairly certain Your thinking of the convo where edric tells arya he is milk brothers with jon right? That's edric DAYNE, not edric storm. Arya never meets edric storm as he is with either renly or stannis. Ahhh, thanks for clearing that up. Yes. I'm just waiting for the scene where Jon finally snaps at Sansa.


>***"Listen here Sansa. Its great that your pedophile lover deemed it fit to allow you a seat at the table he built for you but I don't. I fought off the largest invasion Westeros has seen since the Andals. I've led green boys against hardened killers and come out the victor. I traveled to lands beyond the wall so cold I feared I would never be warm again. I've had friends die in my arms and foes die by sword. I have slain the monsters Old Nan would scare you to sleep with. I was voted as the best leader to defend Westeros by the Nights Watch and the best man to lead the North by the Northern Lords. And I swear upon the Old Gods and the New, if you ever question me infront of my serfs again, I will beat you with Longclaw's pommel until the Iron Throne has to pass a binding fucking resolution to stop me from massacring you.***They did in S6E10, shortly, about being able to trust each other.They addressed it last season, either in the same episode or in the finale. Sansa apologizes for not telling Jon in advance. The scene where they're standing on the battlements together that ends with him kissing her forehead.Probably because those are things Jon would never say or think.Yes but she never explained *why* she didn't mention it. If I was Jon I would say something like "Umm hello Sansa?? I could have and should have died in the battle yesterday. Not to mention Rickon died because we had nothing to negotiate with Ramsay. Remember? We met him before the battle to treat? If we told him we have __ mounted men and __ foot soldiers we could probably have worked a deal to allow him to keep the Dreadfort or take the Black. And even if he refused we have a giant who could storm the gate or wait for a mutiny to occur in Ramsay's ranks since he is not well loved. So how many men died senselessly because you kept your mouth shut?" 

At the end of the day we can go in circles about why Sansa didn't say anything but it just doesn't make sense unless Sansa is a master schemer who wanted Jon and Rickon to die. Which doesn't seem to be what she actually wanted, thus it just doesn't make sense.

I remember but it should have definitely been a bigger issue, they lost a lot of men that we will need in their upcoming fights over a lack of communication. Good point. Promote Robett to Speaker of the King.I'm really interested in seeing what happens with Stannis' storyline in TWOW. We know he likely isn't long for this world, however I couldn't imagine it playing out like in the show either. It seems like the book Stannis storyline was handed over to Jon in the show. Which makes sense, because it adds more stakes when a fan favorite is involved. But how far can Stannis go? If the Pink Letter is to be believed, his storyline will meet an abrupt end. However, I feel like there's too much left to resolve for it to be true. There are two POV characters wrapped up with him, and there's a daughter at the Wall to burn. 

To me, the letter was written by Ramsay ~~Snow~~ Bolton, and he fully believes what he wrote is true, however he was fed misinformation. At least that's my hope. I really want the *North Remembering* to amount to something. There needs to be a payoff. 
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*She has always been more of a stab now think later typeI don't think so.  The Freys were the longest running joke in Westeros.  One girl taking out the whole lot will be seen as aggressive...  it will strike fear... but no one likes the Freys enough to counter attackAnyone else think Arya's faceless men abilities are a little too ridiculous? It basically just gives her superpowers to be disguised as anyone regardless of who they are and how different their physical appearance is to Arya's. Just wish it wouldn't look quite as clean and perfect as it does to literally steal someone else's face. The Lannisters do it all the time. It instills fear.that's a great observation about adding crosshairs to Jon's back, that is if everyone makes the appropriate connection. i actually thought the show-stealing line was "Tell them that winter came for House Frey."

would love to see what, if anything, edmure will do as a result...Do you know what is the worst thing about that? In S6E10, Arya murdered Walder Frey's sons, chopped em up, baked them into a pie, served them to their father. After he finds out she slits his throat and watches him bleed out, smiling. 
This episode she holds a speech to a room full of guys already poisoned and dying shortly after.
I don't know what is planned for Arya for the rest of the series, but Jesus Christ, that's some serious psycho shit going a tiny bit above what one usually can excuse with vengeance...
Nah, Cersei doesn't need a reason to wage war against the north.

But offing the freys sears both fear of the north in people (They have dark magics!!), as well as shows that betrayel does not go unpunished.If we have learnt anything from how news travel for any incidents is that they are always becomes fantasised. Noone will know what befell on Twins. I'm in for the idea that the word spread that the Gods punished the Freys for the GuestRight Breakage in a mumbo jumbo incident. It will spread ample fear and restore the sanctity of the custom. Traumatised Walder wife will surely rewrite the events. XDMy big fear is not that it may cause a problem to Jon, but it is pretty much a signature of the mass murder as Arya’s job, and if she keeps pulling stunts like that, it will be very much easy for the FM to find her should they want to.

I find it very difficult to believe that they would let someone use their powers for vengeance killing throughout the seven kingdoms. Death is serious business for them, religiously speaking even.
That girl didn't listen to Arya and didn't tell anything as it seems Jaime and the Lannister soldiers have no idea who killed them and what happend.Im not entirely clear what other suspects there might be for this?The line would be a lot more powerful if the North hadn't spent the last three seasons pointedly forgetting.It was this season's version of Dorne. They needed to simplify a plot line so they killed them all off. As you say nothing will come of it. Freys are done as far as the TV story goes. Jaime said the Freys are all dead and blamed it on Walder.  Who exactly is alive and will put crosshairs on Jon?I would actually say that they probably still don't know who killed all the freys. 

In the scene with Cersie and Jamie talked to each other, they said: "*... but they Freys supported us. Now they are all dead. Whoever killed them is no friend of ours*".

That probably means they don't know even know who did this. Like others mentioned, there might have been bunch or rumors flying around, getting further and further away from the truth as it passes by....except for zombie Frey'sFirstlly, Arya doesn't know that Jon has Winterfell. She doesn't think that she would be putting anyone in danger because she thinks that she's the last Stark left. Also, there's nobody who would turn against house Stark for attacking the Freys that wasn't already firmly against them for reclaiming Winterfell.Well, you see, because she's stupid. Well for one thing it's likely that Frey's wife didn't even know that was Arya. She never mentioned her name to her, after all.

She just said "tell them The North Remembers" and "Winter came to House Frey."

Naturally you'd conclude it was a Stark loyalist, but you don't have to make the connection to Arya. She hasn't been officially heard from for years. As far as anyone knows she's dead and gone. Her family seems to have given up hope that she's alive.As a Stark killing the Freys, it's more than appropriate. She lets everyone know what happens for betraying Robb and house Stark. The people who will learn the rumor will make it into a song, or a story to scare kids.First off: There would probably be a bunch of different accounts/rumors about what actually happened, as the truth is kinda not believable. Second: As Syrio taught Arya in the books, "Fear cuts deeper than swords". She is putting fear in the hearts of her enemies. It is a mind game that will hurt the morale of whoever she/ The North is fighting. I'm sure she will continue these kinds of psychological warfare once she connects with Nymeria, as the wolf is shown in the preview. Jamie and Cersie talk about the massacre and about what he "heard." Surprised he wasn't like, "yeah, and apparently it was a little fucking girl."
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Doesn't really ruin the magic for me, but I did find it humorous thinking about how Arya had to kill, chop up, and then somehow cook Frey's sons into a pie all without anyone noticing.Well, she can't be just anyone. She had to kill Walder to wear his face. And he's a frail old man, hardly difficult to disguise under all those baggy old robes. I did check the hands and they were old-mannish, but I'll let that slide. If Arya tries to pass as the Mountain, then I'll agree with you.we've seen dragons, magic, people coming from the dead, an army of frozen zombies and even jaqen doing the same stuff as arya is doing in the first seasons. why would it bother anyone now?She is slightly deus ex. Having her bond with the Lannister soldiers makes me think she's gonna regret her actions somewhere down the line. But then again they may just go a full 180 and have her butcher them all in their sleep next week. 

If it is the latter then at least they'd be acknowledging she's a psychopath. I keep seeing people acting like it's this badass awesome moment, but even if all those Frey guys did participate in the Red Wedding, it was war, the Starks were their enemies (even if the Starks/Tullys didn't know) the, and during war you're supposed to follow commands to defeat your enemies. Obviously, the Red Wedding wasn't honorable, but I'm sure many of those Freys and families and friends and were not irredeemable peices of shit. 

Lady Stoneheart isn't supposed to be someone you're rooting for. Her indiscriminate slaughter of anyone involved with the Red Wedding is supposed to show that two wrongs don't make a right. But if the show doesn't acknowledge that Arya just did something seriously fucked-up, I won't be surprised. The moral of GOT seems to be "revenge is cool!"It's up to Ed Sheeran and his merry men to save herThat is a thought I can’t get away from. She is using their mojo and possibly tarnishing their brand. How can they let that stand?I can't imagine the Faceless Men have a problem with her giving the "gift" of death to Freys en masse. They knew what they were getting with Arya - a young girl with violent revenge fantasies about any and everyone who had in any way hurt her family. 

They wanted to release her to commit mass murder across Westeros. She didn't run away from her training - she graduated. Honestly I wouldn't be surprised if we've seen the last of the faceless men/House of Black and White. Jaqen seemed okay with her defecting for whatever reason, and he seemed to be the only faceless man.I can only seeing this being OK with the Faceless Men if the Freys were already marked for death. ( and if they were, who paid for it?)Well, that’s the thing about the North and that phrase. Most of the families in the North go back for hundreds of *generations*. While others might think four of five years is a long time to hold a grudge, or even to seemingly forget it, that’s an eye blink of time in the North.This is nowhere near the level of Dorne shit.>It was this season's version of Dorne

Why would you insult Arya like that?  Comparing her to those "bad bitches!"

Sacrilege!  We are dueling at dawn!  Paper cuts from GRRM novels until one of us screams hot pie!

---

Actually, you're totally right.  It's a very simple way to tie up loose ends.  With a sprawling cast of characters this wide, the show definitely needs to clean up the less important characters, in order to bring everything to conclusion in 13? more episodes.

I'm just happy that it was so bad ass and memorable.He didn't say that. He said whoever did it is no friend of theirs, meaning he thinks whoever did it is still around and another concern of theirs.They have sent an army “to keep the peace,” in fact. That makes it all the better when the Ed Sheeran platoon from that army has no idea they are sharing rabbit with the main, ah, disturber of the peace.And it's not like the actual truth is believable.I'm sure during the course of masquerading as Walder Frey for two weeks, she encountered some sort of letter indicating the status of the North. If anything it makes it sound like Sansa/Jon hired a faceless man to take care of the Freys.Except she doesn't follow her own advise. She says something to the effect of leave one wolf alive and the sheep aren't safe. She left the frey wife alive. Now granted wolf specifically means Stark in this case but you'd think she would think about that decision a bit more.I can imagine a new "Rains of Castamere" style song but this time written about the Frey's fall.Exactly, its identical to the accounts and rumours of Robb attacking with a wolf pack and being a wolfman himself.This is an important point.  Something tells me that at the very least Jaime will be somewhat alright with House Frey being gone, given the conversation he had with Walder at the end of S6.  

> **Walder:** "Fear is a marvelous thing."

> **Jaime:** "They don't fear the Freys though, they fear the Lannisters. We gave you the Riverlands to *hold* the Riverlands.  If we have to ride North and take them back for you every time you lose them...why do we need you?"

When and if they find out that House Frey was taken down by *one girl* who posed as the *head* of House Frey, that fear is exactly what they were talking about.  One girl ended an entire family.  An entire family that *wasn't* feared, at least in Jaime's eyes.They probably don't know what happened, just that something went down. They only sent like 7 Lannister soldiers to see what was going on (the guys Arya met).They seemed to insinuate that Walder Frey killed his own, IIRC. Why would the Frey girl and the wenches report that out?Just their hands really. She could just hide/bury/burn the rest.I understand that but in this universe all of those things make sense. Arya's abilities really don't make a whole lot of sense other than accepting they're unknown practices of the Faceless Men. > But if the show doesn't acknowledge that Arya just did something seriously fucked-up, I won't be surprised. The moral of GOT seems to be "revenge is cool!"

That was the point of the scene where she accepts the food from the band of Lannister soldiers she was about to kill. She understands they're just some boys who'd rather be back home.I also love LSH's no-drama approach to things. But I imagine, between the scenes, a young girl preparing 2 adult corpses to be the filling for a pie... I don't think she evern cared enough about Robb to go through ALL this. Killing them, yeah, somehow, why not. But all that setup and shit, I don't buy it and I hope D&D don't treat this as heroic actsDo you think Maisie Williams was just retrying to get into his pants?I'd rather see this bunch of bonny idiots getting slaughtered than some braindead FreysI think he was counting on Arya leaving when she was ready. .  No one.It reads like fan fiction. Yeah, everyone loves Arya and everyone hates the Freys, but the whole series of events was beyond ridiculous. It's just as bad as Dorne."You're telling me that small child who disappeared five years ago is now a shape shifting demon who can end an entire house in an instant...?"Edit: nevermind. "Night" was actually "fortnight."

Is there an indication that she was Walder for that long? I thought Frarya saying "it's not like old Walder to have two feasts in a night" indicated that it was the same night she killed Walder. She didnt have to wait 16 months like us?I feel like the show would let us know about it if she knew. That would be big news for Aryathat's the kind of thing that would make GRRM laugh and say "You don't know how close to the truth you are!" Like with Hodor and Hold the Door.I'd just like to add no one ever thought of the Freys as wolves. At best you'd get a weasel. I don't think Walder Frey's wife would hold much love for Freys in general and old Walder in particular. I mean, she was married to the guy right after the Red Wedding and he was not exactly a particularly pleasant person at the best of times.Relevant;

>"And who are you, the late lord said,

>that I must respect some feed?

>Only a bowl of bread and salt,

>that's not the vow I need.

>Be a wolf or a leaping trout,

>give crossbows to the bards,

>And may the north remember this, my king,

>the Freys send their regards.

>And so he croaked, and so he croaked,

>that Lord of the Crossing,

>But now the snow sits o'er his hall,

>with no one left to sing.

>Yes now the snow sits o'er his hall,

>and not a soul shall sing."

- The Frayed CrossingWe're a young house/not well respected 
Love weddings/and kingslayin too
We're a young house/not much for wisdom
Love meat pies/bread and salt too 

It's a long trip/sailing in from braavos
There's a time warp/helped me get there fast
And I'm a bad girl/wiping out their family
I'm a bad girl/for poisoning the wine 

And I'm Frey...

...FREY FALLLLLLIIINNNNNNNN' Not the entire family, Roslyn Tully nee Frey Just had a baby boy who should be the rightful heir to the Twins at this point.  Something something about leaving one alive being a fatal mistake.  They will also hear that a faceless man was involved.They said they were part of “the army” that was sent ... no way of knowing how many men that actually would be ...They said they were part of the army that had been sent.They probably didn't only send 7 dudes... that was likely just a sentry group patrolling or something. 14 year old wife: "Well Lord Walder poisoned his family and then took off his face and turned into a little girl!"


Is it really that hard to believe that a grown man would disregard the second half of that sentence. They were probably wondering whether she might have accidentally taken a small sip of that poisoned wine lol.Well then why did they play the Frey scene as a badass moment?The Freys brutally murdered Arya's mother, brother, his pregnant wife and dozens of Stark men in cold blood (and then mutilated their bodies), after luring them to their house as invited guests for a wedding. In Arya's world this was a disgusting and outrageous betrayal of sacred custom, completely out of bounds. Arya's revenge was equally ruthless and brutal, but in Westeros it would be considered a just and proportional response to the Freys' wicked treachery.He also seems to be a bit of a higher-up type. Not that the entire order would be fine with her actions.You know nothing.You like the bad DorniDorne made no sense whatsoever on the very basic level. It made no sense for Elaria to do any of the shit they did. It made sense for Arya to do what she did. That I think is the biggest difference.

But even then, there wasn't anything as damning as Sand Sneks teleporting onto Trystane's boat. Nothing that completely ruined my immersion.

Yes, it's implausible that she would have been able to kill them all, but not straight up impossible like with Dorne.

I personally liked the scene, but whatever.The witnesses would not have recognized her as Arya Stark. 2 feasts in a fortnight, so it was 2 weeks or less she acted as Walder, presumably.She's gonna find out and head north im sureI think the books described them as having rat or ferret like faces. Just another neat piece of foreshadowing from GRRM that the Freys were not to be trustedIs that an actual song from the series or did you come up with that??Amazing. 10/10 would Frey again.Brought to you by British pop sensation Ed SheeranWe see no children at the feast, and given the age of the Freys, it is rather unlikely that there are no underage Freys in the family.>  Roslyn Tully nee Frey Just had a baby boy who should be the rightful heir to the Twins

No, she married into the Tully family. The son will be heir to Riverrun after Edmure.Are the Faceless Men that widely known? At least in the show I can't think of any character other than Arya that has seen, interacted with, or even mentioned them. I figured they were thought of as a myth at best.They will speculate...but I only saw what....two servant girls there and Walder child bride to tell the story?You are right, my mistake. The Lannisters only need seven good men!You are right, my mistake.It *was* a badass scene. The point of the Ed Sheeran scene was to say, "Revenge is great...but it's not blind."Hype. And then they walk it back a little and say, "Oh wait, those were people."A 16 year old girl murdering 2 men, then chopping them into pieces, so small that she can fill a pie with the meat, letting a man bleed out with a smile on her face and poisoning a room full of men? Not even in Westeros would any of that be considered just and proportional, no fucking wayIf she didn't have Lord Walder's face I'd agree that it was implausible. But with his face I think that it makes perfect sense. Walder's face gives her unlimited access to the castle, including the Maester's stores of chemicals and poisons (which is how LF got the strangler I might add). And we all know that when Lord Walder calls, his brood comes scurrying over in full. 


So from that point on it's just a matter of poisoning whichever cask of wine she opened up for the feast.It's from a fanfiction a friend of mine writes. 

https://m.fanfiction.net/s/12200320/1/Dragons-of-Ice-and-FireI'm the only person who didn't know who the hell that was, apparently.This. The Greys aren't wiped out. They're just cut down to size.Though technically the Freys hold Riverrun at the moment. In season one, the small council floated the idea of hiring the faceless men to kill Daenerys.Right, but someone who changed his/her face will be part of the story.I don't think those ones count. Sure they would. Did you miss the part where they stabbed Robb's pregnant wife in the belly in front of him? Or where they slit Catelyn's throat despite her posing no threat to anyone? Or the fact that they offered them guest rights to make them feel safe when they weren't?

I'd call her cutting up the dude's sons and feeding them to him proportionate. House Reyne was absolutely removed from existence for far less. The Targaryens were almost completely wiped out, including the babies head dashed against a wall. Arya destroying an entire house for not only betraying and brutally eliminating her family, but for breaking the sacred guest right is pretty extreme, but no more than what has already been demonstrated by the other houses.I didn't know either.You're not the only one. I was also in the same boat.Yep. They are just known to be hugely expensive.And from Jaime interaction with Cersie that story hasn't made it to Kings Landing or it was dismissed Even then, the whole premise of cooking men into pies and serving it to their father isn't a new concept in Westeros.  In the Rat Cook, a man who betrayed guest right was punished by the gods to become a rat cursed to be unable to eat anything by his own young.  Arya's punishment was extremely harsh, but was directly referencing the god's punishment of breaking guest right.

> When the flames were blazing nicely Meera put the fish on. At least it's not a meat pie. The Rat Cook had cooked the son of the Andal king in a big pie with onions, carrots, mushrooms, lots of pepper and salt, a rasher of bacon, and a dark red Dornish wine. Then he served him to his father, who praised the taste and had a second slice. Afterward the gods transformed the cook into a monstrous white rat who could only eat his own young. He had roamed the Nightfort ever since, devouring his children, but still his hunger was not sated. "It was not for murder that the gods cursed him," Old Nan said, "nor for serving the Andal king his son in a pie. A man has a right to vengeance. But he slew a guest beneath his roof, and that the gods cannot forgive." - ASOS Bran IVThis is not at all what I am talking about. My point is: a teenage girl butchers and cooks 2 dudes and feeds them to a guy she's killing anyways a minute later. This is not teaching anyone a lesson or setting a precedent like the other cases, this is the work of a psycho killer and not a noble heroine delivering vengeanceGendry? Is that you?There are three dragons on Dragonstone and no one knows that.I think you might be watching/reading the wrong show/books.Oh, I agree. That shows some psychotic revenge but I figure no one else in Westeros will know of this event. That's why I thought you were referring to the outcome of the rest of the Freys.That was the end of the episode after the Jaimie and Cersie scene.....I'm sure they will know soon about the dragons Anyone else notice the catspaw dagger in Sam's [book](http://imgur.com/LwVrhrx)?What was that the CoTF pushed into the Night's King to create him? Was it also Dragon Glass?

If so, then Dragon Glass could create and cure monsters.> The page after mentions talk of dragonglass being a sacred stone with "even rumors of it being a cure for..."

I think we all know where this is Jorah-ing."Dear Maesters of the Citadel, 

I've read your magazine before and thought it was made up but something strange happened to me and I had to share it with you. My name is A.Targa...Smith. A.Smith. Well,
One day I came home from a ride and my sister was getting out of the shower. She's really hot. She asks me "do you want to dry off my back..."Guys, what about [this one](https://i.imgur.com/8WMzSX0.png)? 

That picture has me wondering if the world in ASOIAF is part of a three-body system, maybe it's a moon or intermittently orbits a cold dead star instead of their living sun. 

That would explain why they have long winters of intermittent, unpredictable length. 

I suppose it's an unoriginal idea and there are probably plenty of readers who theorized this before, but I hadn't come across the theory yet and got excited for a minute when I saw that diagram. 

Edit: Never mind, I did some googling and found tons of second-hand reports from con-goers saying things like:

> He assured us that we will someday find out how seasons work in his world, and that it will not be a scientific explanation because hello, it’s a fantasy novel. He said that some fans have written him with fantastic explanations involving two suns, one of which is a black dwarf but that they will be disappointed

Now I'm even more curious why they slipped that diagram in. >Eastern texts tell of how their dragons would thaw the stone with dragonflame until it became molten & malleable.

I was just thinking about how the Dragons could technically be used to provide an endless source of volcanic rock.I want to know whether that style of dagger was common at one point or if that dagger was special, some explanation of that picture in the book...Kind of off topic but what that the catspaws dagger in that one picture? V. Steel and dragon bone? Is it special? Or was the catspaws dagger just one of many?Speaking of dragonglass, it still annoys me how no one has explained on-screen that Valyrian steel also kills White Walkers.

Jon killed one with his Valyrian steel sword, yet all he told his bannermen was that dragonglass can be used to kill White Walkers! I bet a bunch of those houses have an old Valyrian steel sword or dagger around too, why didn't he inform them about that?

Is this Jon being an idiot or the writers?Sam: "Hey Jorah, so you have to eat some of this paste to treat your greyscale"

Jorah: "What is it"

Sam: "Dragonglass"

Jorah:I love this fandom.[LEGENDS OF THE LONG NIGHT](http://imgur.com/a/xuJqF)       
    

|


>*As the First Men*   
*Established their*   
*realms followin*  
*g their Pact,*   
*little troubled t*   
*hem save their*   
*own feuds and*   
*wars, or so the histories tell us,*   
*It is also from these histories th*   
*at we learn of the Long Night,*   
*when a season of winter cam*   
*e that lasted a generation-a*   
*generation in which children*  
*were born, grew into adulthood*      
       

|


>*and in many cases died withou*    
*t ever seeing the spring. Indeed*   
*some of the old wives tales say t*   
*hat they never even beheld the*   
*light of day, so complete was the*  
*winter that fell on the world.*   
*While this fact may well be no*   
*more than fancy, that fact tha*   
*t some cataclysm took place m*   
*any thousands of years ago see*   
*ms certain. Lomas Longstrider*   
*In his Wonders Made by Man*   
*recounts meeting descendants of*   
*the Rhoyanar whose secret song*       
  
--------  
   

|


[THE CATSPAW DAGGER PAGE:](http://i.imgur.com/PjIJKNw.png)  


>*The Valyrians were familiar with dragonless long before the*   
*y came to Westeros. They called it [zīrtys perzys,](https://lingojam.com/EnglishtoValyrianTranslator) which translates*   
*to ”frozenfire” in Valyrian, and*  
*eastern texts tell of how their drag*   
*gons would thaw the stone wi*   
*th dragonflame until it became*  
*molten and maliable.  The*   
*Valyrians then used it to build*  
*their strange monuments and b-*  
*uildings without seams and joint*   
*of our modern castles*   


|


>*When Aegon the Conqueror*   
*forged his Seven Kingdoms, he*   
*and his descendants would often*   
*decorate their blades with dragon*   
*glass, feeling a kinship with the*  
*stone.  The royal fashion for*  
*dragonglass ornamentation soon*  
*spread throughout the Seven*   
*Kingdoms to those wealthy en*   
*-ough to afford it:  Hilts and pommels were and are the most crossg*  
*uard decoration for dragonglass if*   
*too brittle to make a useful crossg*  
*uard. Indeed its very brittleness is*  
*what relegates it to the great houses and the most successful merch*  
*ants.*  


|


OPPOSITE CATSPAW PAGE   

>*...acolyte studies the so-called*   
*...mysteries of the arcane and magical*   
*.. final test is to stand a solitary vig*   
*..locked vault with three dragonglass*   
*...By this time he has learned of the*    
*… legends - that seated before the*   
*..magically-lit candles their sorcerers con*   
*...across mountains, seas, and deserts,*   
*...a man's dreams and give him*   
*...speak to one another half a*  
*...acolyte has no forth and*  
*… he can...*   
*...darkness*      
   
------- 
   
[DRAGONSTONE PAGE](http://i.imgur.com/Cs2baG8.png)    
      
>*Or perhaps geography is to blame. While dragonlass is rare in*      
*mainland Westeros, the island of Dragonstone more than lives up*      
*to its name, housing vast deposits of dragonglass and even the ...*     
*.. of an ancient mine of the First Men. But Essos has no such equi*     
*valent and, as Maester Adren theorized, value derives? from scarcity*    
    

|
    

>*but absence results in the worthlessness. True, legend has it that Valyria*     
*took as much dragonglass as gold from the mines beneath their Four*     
*teen Flames, but the Doom buried all evidence beneath the Smoke-*    
*ing Sea or burned it along with the dragons and very skies on that*     
   
OPPOSITE DRAGONSTONE PAGE   
     
>*..dragonglass, the fashion*   
*… to Westeros.*   
*...may use dragon*   
*… of the stone, which*   
*... and some of the*   
*... earrings adorned with*   
*... Valyrian princes and*   
*... But for the most part dr-*   
*... too difficult for build-*   
*... of the ostentatious kind pre*    


|


>*...dragonglass are the*  
*.. consider the  stone sacred thoug*     
*… history or because of some arcane*    
*...whatever the case, in the eastern …*    
*...candles and amulets along with*    
*...are even tales of the less sav*     
*…mastered dragonglass as a cure for*    
*...in his great work on illnesses and dise*     
*.. little harm incurs from the ingestion*     
*… not discount the harm to the gullible*     
*...better spent on practical treatments*    
*… this association with the*    
*...which explains the low*    
*… have purchased*   
*… sadly*   

-----     
  

[DRAGONGLASS PAGE:](http://i.imgur.com/X8sJaEk.png)  
      
>*..range.  More damning*   
*for the Children, thought*   
*..was that even when the*   
*ir weapons found the w*   
*eak joints in the armour*   
*or penetrated it outright,*   
*there were always more*    
*men waiting. In the great*   
*war that followed many*    
*of the Children perished*   
*until The Pact that br-*   
*ought peace to the two*   


|


>*...disputed note a resurgence of dragonglass dur-*   
*...we do not know anymore.*   
*…..bronze couldn't bear*   
*...brittle as twigs, and*   
*...ever the case, the*   
*...the Long Night,*   
*...dragonglass*    
  You're doing the Gods' work.  Seven blessings to you good Ser or is it my lady?It's just dragonglass/obsidian in High Valyrian: "zīrtys perzys"I really hope they touch upon dragonglass candles.Could someone post an image of the cover of "The Legend of the Long Night" for me please?  My copy is 720.  I want to look the figure and accompanying symbolism.  Thank you.>The Valyrians then used it to build their strange monuments and buildings without the seams or joints of our modern castles.

Those oily black buildings that are all over their world? Could they be pure obsidian forged by dragons? THIS IS SO COOLThis is why I love Reddit!! Thank you to everyone!here's the same images just a little bit brighter:

http://imgur.com/a/gBW4S

anyone notice the picture of the dagger used by the Cats paw on the 2nd page they show? too bad the text didn't give any history of that blade.

I'm pretty sure it will show up in the season as it was spotted in that promo photo shoot with all the stark kids a couple of months ago.A couple pieces of text: 

> Various tomes, many disputed, note a resurgence of dragonglass during the Long Night, though to what end we do not know anymore. If the winter was as bad as they say perhaps bronze couldn't bear the extreme cold. The swords _ _ brittle as twigs, and the armour would freeze _ _ _ whatever the case, the Annals of the Night's Watch...

And second: 

> Or perhaps geography is to blame. While dragonglass is _  _ mainland Westeros, the island of Dragonstone _  _ _ _ to its name, housing vast deposits of dragonglass and _ the _ is of an ancient mine of the First Men.  But _ has no such _ and, as Maester Arden theorized, value derives from scarcity but absence results in worthlessness. True, legend has it that Valyria took as much dragonglass as gold from the mines beneath their Fourteen Flames, but the Doom buried all evidence beneath the Smoking Sea or buried it along with the dragons and very skies on that...

Danny sends Jorah away to find a cure for greyscale when her dragons could have been the cure all along. How heartbreaking.Cure for grey scale? Jorah needs a way out of that quarantine cell>We will someday find out

That means when he finishes the books, which is never, so I think we might as well analyze everything and make up our own explanations.  Plus the show is different than the books--Dany is fireproof etc.

Sooo how do we get an enhanced version of this image?Nevermind! Found the discussion!

https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nt2fr/spoilers_extended_sam_and_his_books/Jon and Sam discussed that in Season 5 Episode 10, I believe.

I don't think Sam has enough evidence yet to link Valyrian Steel, Dragon Steel and Dragon glass. I expect that will happen this season.Valyrian steel weapons are incredibly rare and valuable. I doubt a "bunch" of northern houses have them. But really is this something that you want to occupy screentime? The viewer knows, and as long as nothing in the show suggests that they DON'T know, does it matter?I swear I've heard it said onscreen before.

Nevertheless I think that it will be a major plot point this season. Wouldn't be surprised if even given a direct demonstration.Well...at least it's not Jojen...The Lords work, right here.Looking at the images with your text, with exempli gratia supplements to complete the sense of some lines:



.............................................drag]onglass, the fashion

.................................................]uted to Westeros.

.................................................]er may use dragon

glass........................................]ss of the stone, which

.............................................]ide and some of the

.............................................]earrings adorned with

dragonglass were still worn by] Valyrian princes and

others eager to emulate them. ]But for the most part, dr-

agonglass............................]ne, too difficult for build-

ing....................................]of the ostentatious kind pre-

viously favoured.]

.................................... ]due on dragonglass are the

..................................]consider the stone sacred thoug

..............................m]astery or because of some arcane

...........................w]hatever the case, in the eastern mar

kets.................are sold]candles and amulets along with

other strange trinkets.] There are even tales of the less sav

oury uses of...............]alered dragonglass as a cure for

............Maester.....]in his great work on illnesses and dise-

ases records only tha]t little harm incurs from the ingestion

but that we shoul]d not discount the harm to the gullible

whose money would be] better spent on practical treatments

.......................................]it is this association with the

superstitious and naive...................]which explains the low

prices for which maesters......................]have purchased

...................................................................]iers sadlyYou are a gentleman and a scholar.Hmm so I'm thinking dragon glass can 'cure' Grey scale the same way "cold hands" was cured.  Not ingesting it, but having it thrust into the heartMy lady. Thank you, sir. **ahem** Harrenhal **cough**Not the ones that absorb light, iirc the WOIAF considers them different. But the smooth black ones are Valyrian if this text holds true to the books. THANK you. Dark images don't show up well on my phoneThe thing is, the dagger in the book is adorned with dragonglass, and the cat's paw's dagger, isn't. [Theory crafting and speculation on this image](http://imgur.com/a/ezB1a) Arya dual wielding it with Needle?  Sansa taking it as her personal Valyrian weapon/badge of office?  I tried with almost no avail to get anything more out of the second picture, does anyone think the mine of the First Men might be either the "Fist" or Hardhome?I'm pretty sure it's "But Essos has no such equivalent"


There's also this snippet:
... dragonglass, the fashion ... to Westeros. ... may use dragon ... of the stone, which ... and some of the ... earrings adorned with ... Valyrian princes and ... But for the most part, ... too difficult for build ... of the ostentatious kind ... 

... on dragonglass are the ... consider the stone sacred though ... mastery or because of some arcane ... whatever the case, in the eastern ... candles and amulets along with ... There are even tales of the less sav[age?] ... dragonglass as a cure for ... on his great work on illnesses and diseases ... little harm incurs from the ingestion ... not discount the harm to the gullible ... better spent on practical treatments ... is this association with the ... which explains the low ... have purchased ... sadly ... 

And:
... acolyte studies the so-called ... mysteries of the arcane and magical ... final test is to stand a solitary vigil ... locked vault with three dragonglass ... By this time he has learned of the ... Valyrian legends - that, seated before the ... magically-lit candles the sorcerers con[tact?] ... across mountains, seas, and deserts; ... man's dreams and give him ... to one another half a ... acolyte has no torch, and ... [un?]less he can indu[ce?] ... darkness I don't think that's the case. I'm pretty sure dragonglass is just obsidian, a naturally occurring volcanic 'glass'. Though they probably could have found obsidian somewhere in Essos.Dragon glass is the answer for everything, its like nanomachines in Metal Gear.  Make a white walker?  Dragon glass through the heart.  Kill a white walker?  Dragon glass anywhere. Resurrect/Save Benjen from dying all the way?  Dragon glass through the heart.  Cure for Greyscale?  Maybe Dragon Glass.  Secret recipe for Valyerian Steel?  Probably something to do with dragon glass.  Littlefingers jetpack?  you guessed it, dragon glass fuel.  Wait how is the Mountain "alive" again?  Glass Dragons were made and then smashed against an actual mountain.  Are shadow babies just the gaseous form of obsidian?  Yes, absolutely 100% confirmed.  Is Cleganebowl just a metaphor for a bowl of dragon glass?  GET HYPE!  And lastly i think we know why Greywater Watch moves, the blue eyed giant Macumba has a persistent itch in his eye that was caused by a rare black substance often found near volcanos.  His other eye is the volcano.Shireen was cured when Stannis was on Dragonstone, correct?I just rewatched season 6 and I am 100% sure it wasn't not mentioned there at least. So, If dragon glass helps Grey scale and can effectively kill the Ice Army.... Maybe the glass is sharp enough to slice off the scales... Meaning there's a Link between the Others and Grey scale. 

Stupid question :isn't there way more reports of Grey scale the closr you get to do north? [This guy](https://www.reddit.com/r/gameofthrones/comments/5i57t7/everything_whats_the_cure_for_greyscale/) called it

Paging /u/WilleBweendeuhDoesn't someone say "the only cure for greyscale is a dagger" in the earlier seasons?Quite likely, all the text implications are so close together. And Team Daenerys  could use all the wights or semi-wights she can get on her side.Can you please elaborate?Oooo thank you for the distinction. I was thinking of the ones in Yeen and Asshai, but you're right there's a difference. Still cool!Well the daggar in the book is a picture that matches. The passage around it talks about how the the old Valarians liked to adorn things with dragon glass. Though I didn't see anything in the passage talking about the pictures dagger, so I'm not so quick to assume they are different. Though the passage also mention that the dragon glass is fragile, and all existing valaryan steel is very old, so it's not unreasonable to think the knife could have gotten a fresh dragon bone handle somewhere along the way.Hardhome is a pretty good guess. It's already been theorized that the fall of Hardhome was due to a volcano. It could be the fist of the first men, so the mine is there and the only known alternative to Dragonstone. Since it might be a reason for the "gang" to go behind the wall. Maybe the Northmen don't want to deal with Daenerys so they try the alternative, but realize is not feasible so Jon is forced to deal with Daenerys and ask her for mining rights glass candles in the show confirmed?In the books it says that it's always lethal for adults, but most kids will make. It's implied by one of the wildlings that she isn't cured so much as in remission.Hmm maybe, sounds familiar, may have even been Jorah.Asshai is made from the fused stone IIRCGood point about the handle being changed over time!
The thing, we don't know what happened to the cat's paw dagger in the show. 
When is the last time we see it in the show?Or something along the lines of the Tungsuska Event
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tunguska_eventLuwin confirmed that in Season 1, if I recall correctly. 

Luwin was talking to Bran about magic, and how he, as a student at the Citadel, tried to do something with glass candles (can't recall what exactly - it was like a rite of passage). 

Then just like thousands before him, he just wound up cutting himself up with the candles.The Wildling doesn't actually know. They are used to seeing Greyscale kill people who get it immediately and have no treatment for it. Its more likely its just foreshadowing Shireens death from another angle.what if it's like that episode of south park where magic johnson sleeps in a room full of cash and that's what keeps his HIV at bay but then when they concentrate it and inject the cash into him he's curedwildlings are uneducated, compare to Maesters Stannis contacted, and scared of greyscale, I wouldn't put much faith in what she saidMaybe being near it for so long put her in remission and ingesting cures? Just woke to this today- [huffingtonpost.com/entry/game-of-thrones-star-confirms-the-show-wanted-you-to-notice-something_us](http://www.huffingtonpost.com/entry/game-of-thrones-star-confirms-the-show-wanted-you-to-notice-something_us_596e1595e4b010d77673da05)Luwin was trying to "light" the glass candle.

Basically activate it as the pre-requisite to using it for long distance communication, sending dreams, brainwashing Sam, etc."Are you certain you are cured of greyscale Ser Jorah?"

"I am not just certain, my Khaleesi, I am HIV positive."But how can you be sure? It makes sense, especially if what keeps it at bay are stern looks. Stannis would be a grey scale killing machine.My point is that remission is not cured. Being in remission simply means the disease is not killing you *at the moment.* Basically, greyscale will eventually kill Shireen, the maesters simply gave her a stay of execution.I'm not just sure- I'm HIV positive.Then truly, the cure for greyscale lies on Bear Island with Lady Mormont, The Glare in the North.*grinds teeth*It is a bit late for anything to be killing Shireen at this point.No, shireen survived her grey scale. It's basically chicken pox. Because she survived it she's immune to grey plague. The idea that grey scale never goes away is a wildling thingLittle known fact: Lady Mormont was also the author of "The Glare Bears" series.r/roastmeThis comment is straight fire! Sick burn.Not to poke a hole in your logic, but once you have chicken pox it lies dormant in nerve tissue near your spinal cord and brain. 

It can reactivate at any time as far as years down the line as an even shittier virus known as Shingles.And a Sothyros thing, and an Essos thing. Basically anywhere besides Westeros. 

Also, I have no idea where you're getting this idea that grey scale and the grey plague aren't the same thing, they absolutely are. There is no less severe chicken pox version, some people just don't die immediately. This doesn't mean they aren't contagious or that the disease can't come back.The only person who's said shireen is just in remission is val

It's stated several times that greyscale and grey plague are not the same thing. They are absolutely 100% not the same thing. Why bother being so adamant about something that would take 10 seconds to google?Ok, I'm gonna break this down real simple, and then I'm done with your salty bullshit.

First, my point is that grey scale and grey plague are the same disease, caused by the same thing (likely a virus, and the same virus on both cases). The reason for the difference in manifestation is obvious from the text, grey scale happens in damp cold environments (like Dragonstone, or north of the Wall), while grey plague happens in hot, humid environments (like Sothyros or Old Town during a notoriously hot summer). This is because the virus needs both heat and humidity to achieve the proper conditions for an epidemic. Without those conditions, it is possible to survive, but survivors are still carriers, and a change in their immune system can bring the disease back (all of which is supported by the books). 

Thus, my second point, all other cultures that we have encountered in the book treat grey scale the same way. Those afflicted are either killed or exiled because to have them around risks a plague outbreak once the conditions are correct. I don't understand what your point is about no one from Sothyros or Essos seeing Shireen is, honestly, but whatever.Plus Stannis even states she got it when she pushed the doll up against her check. Stannis then says he burned it straight away, why doesn't Stannis have grey scale then? Or the guy who sold them the doll?If Shireen is still a carrier, why isn't every character she interacts with afflicted with the disease? She comes in direct contact with Stannis and Davos, and at least in the books, they're both fine. Calm the fuck down dude. >Ok, I'm gonna break this down real simple, and then I'm done with your salty bullshit.

I don't give a shit about your headcannon lol

>Without those conditions, it is possible to survive, but survivors are still carriers, and a change in their immune system can bring the disease back (all of which is supported by the books).

This is not supported at all by the books lol, you're making shit up. The books quite literally say in Tyrions ADWD chapters that Greyscale and grey plague are not the same disease, they are cousins. 

>grey scale happens in damp cold environments (like Dragonstone, or north of the Wall)

greyscale comes from sothoryos. This is mentioned in the woiaf. 

>Thus, my second point, all other cultures that we have encountered in the book treat grey scale the same way. Those afflicted are either killed or exiled because to have them around risks a plague outbreak once the conditions are correct.

Literally only val says that greyscale could resurface in shireen. The stonemen were exiled because the disease progressed to the point that they lost their minds. This did not happen with Shireen, because she was able to stop it. Ser Quarantinezone.I'm not gonna read too much into the scene as him being "more reckless." Think it was just a thrilling/scary way to demonstrate how much the disease has begun to cover him. 

I think it's far more likely that he gets cured by Sam than him escaping. Maybe they talk and Jorah is willing to let Sam do some 'experimental' treatments on him without the other maesters knowing about it.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Yea and i dunno if i would call it reckless either.  At this point he is locked in a fuckin cell in the citadel.  Seems like infecting one of the maesters or acolytes might add some urgency to their search for a cureSam is going to cure him with dragon glass She has taken up Brienne's mantle of being a murder robot that teleports around Westeros offing characters and factions the writers don't want to deal with anymoreFor as much hate as that scene is getting I think it was very important to Arya's character development. There were a couple of things. One was definitely her seeing the Lannister soldiers as good people caught up in a war they have nothing to do with and don't even really want to be a part of. The other important thing was all the talk of fathers and daughters. Is she prepared to kill some other girl's father out of vengeance for the death of her father? I think she's been so caught up in her own quest for vengeance that she didn't ever stop to think about that. She was prepared to kill ever single Frey and Lannister she saw and until she realised they were decent people with families of their own, I think she was sizing them up and thinking about how she was going to kill them.Please no more super-human XxxLanister_SlayerxxX Arya, after her wolverine-like regeneration from lethal wounds in Braavos her arc seem to be more and more awful vengeance glorification and wish fulfilment, completely breaks immersion of GoTEh, I don't want her to kill those guys. They were friendly, normal soldiers and even invited her to sit with them. Nobody tried to rape her (thankfully), they offered her food and something to drink. Would be kinda ironic if she'd kill them after talking about guest right at the Twins and whatnot. Plus they made sure to show Arya's inner conflict with certain shots. I'm sure she tried to attack them at first, but quickly realized that they are just normal human beings. 

Why destroy a nice scene with a follow-up of Arya walking away from like 6-7 corpses? Not only would it be unrealistic and cheesy, it would also show that she learned nothing. Let her character grow, let her learn.I wonder, at this point, if she will be primarily used for disguise surprises - like with the Freys in E1. No Nymeria, no Jayne Poole/Fake Arya, and the show cut out her warg abilities. So, who knows?

One burning question though: who was the young squire/knight who was chatting with Arya at the campfire? 
1. Did anyone recognize his group's outfits - were they obviously part of a specific house?
2. Going rogue theory here.....I think it was either Faegon, Edric Storm, or Edric Dayne. Or I hope because that would be awesome. Is this possible?She's gonna hang with them until Nymeria comes to kill them.She's gonna kill the one dude, steal his face, and then go back to his wife and pretend to be him for the rest of her life. She just wants the simple life and that's the only way she'll ever get it.Feels like setting up for a character defining moment. Is she a stone cold killer or still human?I'm not really satisfied with either of those directions. 

On the one hand, I feel like a much stronger argument can be made in the show that Arya is exhibiting the behaviors of a psychopath. LSH can do shit like this in the books, but she is patently supposed to be a monster. Arya is still the little sister. You can't have it both ways.

So, if they show Arya using her assassin training to kill massive amounts of people and then have some Lannister soldiers change her mind about killing Cersei? How do you go back from being a FM? There has to be some character repercussions there. Also, I hate how a girl travelling alone can either be certain rape and death, or share my rabbit and "are you old enough to drink" peachy-keen, depending on what they want the story to do. The world is so inconsistent. I'm pretty positive that they were all clearly lannister men with normal lannister attireThe real world is inconsistent, though.> So, if they show Arya using her assassin training to kill massive amounts of people and then have some Lannister soldiers change her mind about killing Cersei?

Wait, what?  Nobody is suggesting they're going to change her mind about killing Cersei, they even think she was joking.  The soldiers convinced Arya not to kill *them*.  She was clearly considering it before talking to them but seemingly decided otherwise.

>Also, I hate how a girl travelling alone can either be certain rape and death, or share my rabbit and "are you old enough to drink" peachy-keen

I mean, that's the way the world works.  Some places you can walk down the street safely, but 3 blocks over you'd have a bad time.  Not every person you meet on the road is going to be a psycho rapist.I suspected same with all the King's landing talk. But IF they were imposters......that would be cool. The one boy character is clearly coming back. A lot of focus on him.Right, but they explicitly ask her if she's old enough to drink, but don't question her travelling alone on the road to King's Landing?

Traveling through the Riverlands is something that, on the show, has been shown time and time again to be dangerous. If the show had 6 seasons of people getting threatened and eaten by crocodiles on the King's Road and then suddenly shows Arya sitting down to eat dinner with the crocodiles and everyone's fine with that, what does that mean?Maybe, I kind of think they were just trying to really focus in on them to show the human side of the war. That it's not really a good vs evil thing like arya was thinking and it might change some of her behaviors. Like indiscriminate killing might not be the fair thing to do. Like someone else said, that's the way the world works- there are good and bad people. Just because she found a group of good people doesn't mean the road is any less dangerous, there are still bad people. 

Plus, they have to start showing common shoulders and people being more decent. Otherwise, why do I care that the dead are going to take over when basically everyone is completely horrible. It's winter now though.  The people still travelling have reason to be travelling.Sure, I'm not saying everyone you encounter on the road is going to rob and rape you. But they didn't question why she was riding to King's Landing all by herself, even though they had to ask her if she was old enough to drink. They're basically peace-keeping forces. Especially if they were trying to show these soldiers as nice guys, wouldn't they have been concerned for her safety?It being Winter is going to make it even more dangerous. Bandits are going to come out of the woodwork to try to scrap up enough money or food to survive.That's fair. I think differently, it's one girl by herself choosing not to share the info. She is old enough to drink and seems capable riding on her own (plus she has her own sword, it's not like she looks helpless) so why would they push it? She herself doesn't seem a threat and it's not like they would force her to travel in the opposite direction with them. The country has been torn apart and its winter, I would imagine all sorts of people are heading to kings landing or to some place where they feel they might survive. [removed]No[removed]ThanksMaybe the can just go around it where the wall ends into the sea. Wildlings have been taking that route for ages.Final scene of season 7. WW at the wall. Night King puts his hand on the ground (like he did at the hut of the 3ER) and uses his powerful magic to crack the wall. End of season If it's like the show, Bran crossing with the Night King's mark will make it possible for them to go through as well. Seemed to be some foreshadowing last night that the wall is coming down. don't know how they'll do it, but my guess is that's it's gonna crumble.

Then we get to see the battle between white walkers and men. And, once the whitewalkers are defeated, then they're be no need for the Wall anymore anyways.I was just about to make a thread about this. Perhaps he fled Kings Landing because he saw something in the flames and not because of the fire itself? Surely Sandor has had involvement with sieges where towns/cities have been in flames? 

My thoughts are that what happened to him when he was little was the Red gods twisted way of "ear marking" him for a purpose later on on his life.I was just about to make a thread about this. Perhaps he fled Kings Landing because he saw something in the flames and not because of the fire itself? Surely Sandor has had involvement with sieges where towns/cities have been in flames? 

My thoughts are that what happened to him when he was little was the Eed gods twisted way of "ear marking" him for a purpose later on on his life.I like it, would explain why he got so skittish during the battle does anyone have a transcript of the dialogue from that scene (and specifically, that segment where the hound is looking into the flames)? I thought i heard him talking about a mountain that looked like an arrowhead, so when we saw the map of dragonstone in Sam's map later in the episode, i thought those two might be correlated. No one else seems to be posting about this.Crazy prediction: brotherhood without banners will fight the army of the dead.  The hound will pickup thoros' flaming sword(light bringer), overcoming his fear of fire, to defeat a walker or straight up the night King.  I think them taking him down a redemption path with the red god is meaningful and they do something big with it. I think you're reading too much into this. I guess Sandor just could see something in the flames because Thoros was present, and because R'hllor wanted Sandor to certain see things maybe? Someone else pointed to the idea that he is somehow like Pathface, who drowned, and sings prophecies now, about the sea (and Sandor being the fire-equivalent of this). I do not agree with that idea. I think he can see visions in the flames because Thoros was there, just like how Stannis and Selyse can see visions in the flames with Melisandre's aid. Remember, both Fire and Ice are somewhat magical in this series, so I do believe that the gods/lord of light can show visions in the flames to those who believe in it. This is what I came looking for. Where is this arrowhead mountain? Did he see the Others on the south side of the wall or merely approaching the north side of the wall?

I don't think there is a correlation with the dragonstone map but could be wrong. I just want to know which side of the wall he saw them. Season 7:

Jon: "Help us defeat the white walkers or there will be no throne"

Dany: "Na, das mine."

Euron then wipes out Dorne and his nephews fleets, taking hostages as a present for Cersei, thus becoming King alongside her. Meanwhile Jamie takes Highgarden.

Dany fights the Lannisters on land, and does some damage, but both armies end up depleted and pretty much at a stalemate.

Jon: "Will you help us now?"

Cerony Targreynister: Lol na

Jon then fights white walkers without them, gets owned, retreats and wall comes down.

Season 8

Euron kills Dany's smaller dragons. Dany kills Euron. Cersei tries to burn down the red keep, Jamie kills her. Keep blows up anyways. Dany and Drogon survive explosion.

>Throne covered in snow like her vision.

Dany: Okay I'll help now.

Final boss battle

Credits.Clearly Season 8 will feature a lot of Jon Snow upon the back of a dragon absolutely mowing down white walkersSansa and Arya have sort of become good-natured sociopaths. Especially, Arya who is now a righteous mass-murderer. I'm not sure how I feel about this message. Like, it's okay to do horrifically monstrous things, as long as you do it to the people who deserve it.Since we are far ahead of the books, it's hard for me to really judge how off-book she has gotten. though if she continues in WOW like she has in the past season and this first episode, I think she is having a reverse-parallel story arc to Jamie Lannister.

Jamie started off as a character that was pretty detestable, but since being humbled and since we have gotten more context for some of his earlier choices. He has become much more relate-able and likable. Where as Arya started off a bit rambunctious but good and likable is becoming pretty abhorrent in her choices.She was going to kill those soldiers. That's why she kept refusing their food. But they kept being really nice to her, and she decided that they weren't the ones responsible for the deaths of her family members. So she accepted their food, thereby accepting guest right, and she was no longer able to kill them. 
I think you got that scene wrong in the books. Arya has a code. If you violate it, she has a tendency to devalue you. However, she makes very strong connections to people that treat her well and people that do not violate this code. As she refuses to kill the Hound, she has affection for Brusco and his daughters, she likes the people at the Happy Port and she likes Pynto. 





Arya's code is is troubling to the Kindly Man; she has to have a reason to kill and that is NOT how they work: 

> **"Your heart is too soft to be one of us."** He means to send me away. "I have no heart. I only have a hole. I've killed lots of people. I could kill you if I wanted." "Would that taste sweet to you?" She did not know the right answer. "Maybe." "Then you do not belong here. Death holds no sweetness in this house. We are not warriors, nor soldiers, nor swaggering bravos puffed up with pride. We do not kill to serve some lord, to fatten our purses, to stroke our vanity. We never give the gift to please ourselves. **Nor do we choose the ones we kill.** We are but servants of the God of Many Faces."


To kill the insurance man, she has got to buildup animosity to him and find a reason why he must die. Arya is not a mindless killer. 
Not Euron? From the most frightening warlock-pirate to "big cock" gallivanting drunktard-pirateShe is probably just going to kill those soldiers. Or maybe Nymeria does? Or just maybe she's gonna kill one of them and use their face to get to Kings Landing. The Frey massacre seemed pretty cold blooded to me.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*It was not only the soldiers, it was the female freys and people who serve too, she told them specifically not to drink, she is being too moral for someone undergone death on daily basis and for no reason to the extent that she just got used to it Maybe i got it wrong, but my point here is that arya became a person who normalise death, you are correct about the code thing, but i was not arguing this, i was saying that killing is becoming too easy to her, just kill anyone you dislike, if you have to kill someone it do not really matter if another was killed for no reason but just being in the wrong time and place Book Smalljon: Kingsguard of Robb, dies defending him at Red Wedding.


Show Smalljon: Gives Rickon to Ramsey to die, leads infantry against Starks, gets throat torn out by Tormund.> gallivanting

That the sort of thing you start to say once your dick gets chopped off?Euron is much like stannis, same character but with different adaptation due to the cut of many plotlines, but arya is actually was the same adaptation, at least till season 6 where all that build up paid off in a totally unexpected result It is, but how someone experienced all what she did would stay just as moral as to leave off innocents and whom she judge as good guys? It just dont make senseThe female Freys had nothing to do with the Red Wedding. She also saved Lady Crane because Lady Crane was nice to her as well. If she was as amoral as you claim, she should've just killed Lady Crane like she was told to do. She's growing throughout the story, so while she may have had some angst before, she doesn't want to just go around and kill innocent people. She wants to kill people who are being assholes if anything, like the person in Saltpans offering less than the horse was worth because she was the one with the power in that situation. And she learns from the Kindly Man that just killing everyone isn't the answer. 

If anything it shows a little bit of character development, imo. There is a reason for her killing. She kills the stable boy because she was running for her life. She kills to escape Harranhall. She kill the tickler and the squire in a fight. 




Unfortunately, death is the "new normal" in Westeros. However, one thing remains clear, she has to have a reason to employ it. The show has her telling the Frey serving girl **not** to drink the wine. However, this episode was deliberately about who has the right to what and who deserves what.  




Arya is not killing for the sake of killing. She does not even want to accept their hospitality but they insist. And, that is why I think the show people put that in. These men are NOT monsters. Indeed, we see a monster (Clegane) racked with guilt being forced to see the product of misdeeds....he robbed a man that had to kill his daughter to prevent seeing her die of starvation. What does Sandor deserve? He gets up in the middle of the night to bury a family he wronged. When and who to forgive?   




And the whole question of who deserves what is repeatedly brought up on several occasions. Jon says the Umbers and Karstarks do not deserve to suffer for their parents' wrong doings; Sansa believes they do and those that supported her/their cause need to be rewarded. Sandor notes better men than Dondarrion deserve better fates. Arya believes the Freys deserve to die for their misdeeds. And so on. 



This episode sets up the cycle of wrong, revenge, wrong....... or forgiveness a reconciliation. Jon decided to heal the North last night and refrain from revenge. Sansa claims to have learned much from Cersei and wanted to take revenge. I believe it was a very good episode. I think it's not so much she's leaving innocents alive as...in the show she has the prayers she spoke in the darkness to literally no one. That list of people who'd destroyed her innocence, her passion and laughter, her sense of safety, and her family. I think for the time being that list is the closest thing to a moral compass she has. If your not on the list...you have a chance to survive >The female Freys had nothing to do with the Red Wedding

Bold claim. Is there any proof that only male Freys were responsible for Red Wedding?>  Frey serving girl not to drink the wine

I think this was last Mrs. Fray. :(

And I agree about Arya. She alway had empathy for people around her, and that's opposite from psychopat that some people think she is becoming. She "feels" people, she is easy in making friends, she easily connect. I don't know how realistic her story is, that maybe is issue. but I always picture her little older than she is, and ... it''s Westeros. It's not 21st Earth. People are tougher there.This comment needs more upvotes. I think you captured the intent of the show perfectly. One thing I think you missed, however, is that the scene sets up Arya's trust issues and psychological damage. It's clear that when she first sees those soldiers, she thinks the same as the watcher is probably thinking: that they're gonna try to murder/rob/rape her. However, she eventually warms up to them and even takes their food. This ties back and contrasts Sansa, who paranoid and can't trust anyone, and her speech about how dirty the world is. It shows that even after everything she's been through, Arya can still trust and isn't completely gone, which is incredibly heartwarming in my opinion.Nah, none at all. But based on the way Walder Frey treats his wives, I doubt he'd let women be a part of it. Again though, no proof, it was just my assumption as to the reason for letting them live. Sandor and Sansa were the saddest part of the episode for me. Sandor is actively afraid to face the evil of the past because it is a living thing. His guilt is always with him and he actively question's God's justice. So, he goes out in the middle of the night, alone, to dig graves for a  father and child he robbed and betrayed. Thus, in truth, the Hound is **worthy of redemption** because he is sorry for what he has done and it haunts him. 



Sansa, poor Sansa, has learned the wrong lessons from people that are pursuing a destructive paths. Sansa sees Cersei and Little Finger wield power and thinks the lesson is manipulation, revenge and raw power is the way forward. If so, I think she has learned the wrong lessons. Cersei is queen of a ruin that is friendless. Little Finger rules a house of cards. **Did she learn the right lessons?**



Yes, trust, decisions, regrets and codes of conduct were all in this one. For an actionless  episode, it was pretty good. Here's the best transcription of the dragonglass text I've found:
>https://www.reddit.com/r/gameofthrones/comments/6nqrkd/main_spoilers_text_of_sams_book_mentions/dkbypp7/

Kudos RoboFeanor!I always figured Jorah would get his arm burned off by a dragon and that would cure him i wonder why nobody recognized the painting in the other important book in the episode. the book behind the locked door. It explains why the seasons are so strange on "planetos". it appears that the story does not take place on a planet, but on its moon! check it yourself at 31:23!The page showing the dagger:

"The Valyrians were familiar with dragon glass long before they came to Westeros. They called it ---- which translates to "Frozen Fire" in Valyrian and castle texts tell of how their dragons would thaw the Stone with dragonflame until it became molten and malleable. The Valyrians then used it to build their strange monuments and buildings without seams and joints of our modern castles.

When Aegon the Conqueror forged his Seven Kingdoms, he and his descendants would often decorate their blades with dragonglass, feeling a kinship with the Stone. The royal fashion for dragonglass ornamentation soon spread throughout the Seven Kingdoms to those wealthy enough to afford it. Hilt and pommels were and are the most common for dragonglass is to brittle to make a useful crossguard. Indeed its very brittleness is what regulates it to the great houses and most successful merchants."

How the hell would it cure his greyscale?Hey Sam, stab Jorah in the heart with an obsidian dagger. It will totally take care of the greyscale...I'm wondering if Sam learns how the Children made the White Walkers/Saved Benjen etc and uses that to kill/resurrect Jorah?

Remember his line in season 1: "I always wanted to be a wizard?" - could even go all the way here and assume that's the line GRRM insisted stay the same.If the cure to one of the deadliest diseases is a material already used to cure diseases, why haven't the maesters figured that out by nowThe only person that we know of to have been cured of greyscale is Shireen, and she lived on an island of dragonglass. Maybe being surrounded by dragonglass made the healer's procedures more effective. Oh, definitely. Sam is probably going to cure his greyscale this season. I am hoping for a magic arm like Moqorro gives to Victarion. From just a cursory look at the drawings, it looks like it's phases of the moon. Showing the Blood Moon and the Blue Moon.Why does your body heal joint tissues from various forms of sulfur? Why does your body need magnesium or  calcium or copper?Well, see, the atoms found in the dragon glass would have an acidic effect if boiled in the blood of someone with greyscale, and then drank by that person, curing their MADE UP DISEASE WITH MAGIC.Assuming that ritual had some magic exclusive to the children at that point. And it has to be ingested, if anything I would imagine grinding a shard (it is very brittle) into a powder and drinking it.How easy is it to get you hands on dragonglass? If it's in short supply and there are a lot of people in need of it as a cure, that knowledge becoming common could cause more harm than good. Imagine thousands of the infected rioting for dragonglass no one has.Maybe they just never thought to look in a book about the long night for a cure for grey scale.  Would not be my first read if I were looking to cure a disease.  And that library has like a billion books.I might be wrong, but feel like some/all the old Maesters who live at the Citadel feel like healing the small folk is beneath them, or they are too busy with more important matters to care about some nameless people dying of greyscale. Broadbent's speech about the importance of the Citadel seems to highlight this hubris.

If the knowledge of the Citadel isn't used for good, then what use is it?

Like Sam asking for help in stopping the white walkers: he's told that mankind always thinks it's the end of the world, and it never has been. How short sighted can you be to not realize that it hasn't been only because people have fought back. Good point, especially since it's written in a book in their library.Isn't it said that greyscale has never been cured but the progression can be prevented such as in the case of Shireen and this would make it understandable when Jon is shocked that beyond the wall they consider the cure for greyscale to be death.it's known that greyscale don't kill when infected kids[deleted]She was also a little kid.  Maybe nothing the healers did worked at all and she just ate rocks because she was 3 years oldHe will feed his family sword to Jorah.  This separates him from his lineage and means he can begin his life on his own terms.Jorah and Jaime are gonna lock fists. Gold vs. Stone!I'm starting to think that's pretty likely as well. But what is the actual significance of the magic arm? If it is important enough to be included in the book and show, it must have some specific value soon. Is it going to be a great way to Falcon-punch some white walkers to death? What would the dragon glass do?I demand science!!!Except Stannis, a lord and brother to the king, searched far and wide for a cure. If there was a book at the Citadel that described the healing process like it was common knowledge, and that was written recently enough to feature the Targaryen dynasty, I feel like some medical/geological experts would have known about this and alerted maester Cressen. Clearly it's in the interest of the Citadel that serving maesters maintain its reputation as a place of useful knowledge.Well, plus it's a very dangerous and infectious disease that leaves many people insane by the time they would even think to get help. I can see why maesters wouldn't want to deal with it. It was my understanding that greyscale is *especially* deadly to children and the elderly.

 The idea that dragonglass might cure greyscale makes sense in Shireen's case since it is mentioned that the maesters attempted a wide variety of cures to save Shireen. Considering there is a mountain of dragonglass on Dragonstone, it makes sense powdered dragonglass was probably one of the attempts.Mel wasn't there at the time.Dragon glass paint chips?I hope they will fight for the same side in the end, to be honest. I'm picturing a fireball-launching Megaman arm cannon myself.Oh yes! Falcon Punch!You're slightly off- [Greyscale is more likely to be contracted by children](http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Greyscale), meaning they get more new cases, but are also more likely to survive it with the progression stopped. Adults, when infected, it's essentially always deadly 

So no- it's especially deadly to adults, but it's especially a worry for children.It's a friendship fist bump.Good catch. One of the top posts on this sub is a post on Sansa's costume journey, and it is very evident that much of the story, especially with Sansa, Dany and Cersei, are told through the costumes. Michele Clapton was costume designer on seasons 1-5, and has come back for season 7, so this is definitely deliberate. Marching on Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, probably.I feel like they are biding their time and waiting for something. What that is, I'm not sure. The Wall is supposed to be more then just a block of ice, so it's no surprise they haven't attacked yet. 


Having said that, I'm a fan of the theory that Bran's vision last night with the Giants was both in the future and south of the wall. >Theoretically, couldn't they just have marched directly to the Wall after Hardhome

Think about what happened between Season 7 episode 1 and Hardhome.....the 3-eyed Ravens cave was north of the wall. After Hardhome they travelled all the way to that cave in order to kill the 3-eyed Raven and attempt to kill Bran. Also, the wall still stands (for the time being) with its magical power. Now that Bran has passed the wall, I wonder if the magic has been destroyed (a la the 3-eyed Raven's cave magic) or if that mark the NK made on Bran only works once.They move at an incredibly slow pace unless they're trying to get from Crasters' to the ends of winterworld with a baby in hand. Then they can get there in one episode.The Wall is a magical ward, no? The NK probably can sense that it's still standing so why bother trying to go to it until it falls/they can bypass it?He's marching in the same spiral formation as the weirwood tree, and the corpse crop circles he makes. 


Seriously though I think poor writing is starting to become more, and more obvious in these last seasons. The whole WW army is one of those things; they've never clearly conveyed timelines in the show, so either frosty the snow king is terrible as a military commander, or he's right on schedule and the sequence just makes it look erratic. I would guess they're marching around to try and build up their army as much as possible, theoretically turning everything to their side. That or they're waiting for some kind of signal or specific time frame when it would be most advantageous. If the wall falls because Bran is marked thats going to pretty lame. The 3ER tells Bran right away that the nights king can now enter the batcave cuz of the mark, and they are together for a while longer, he definitely should have mentioned "hey dont cross through the wall" at some point while they were getting their last shroom session in.  Well I mean it's hard to move the largest army ever gathered because all of your soldiers are....... Dead. Tired. They are supposed to be this big looming threat, but they've been around for so long that it's starting to lose all of the suspense. It seems like they've been within a short march of the wall since the beginning of the show/books. I really hope it gets revealed that they are actually doing something this whole time other than just stalling. If the mark does allow for the WW and Wights to either pass through or knock it down themselves (or use a horn to knock it down), that wouldn't be too lame. I don't think him passing through the wall alone is going to force it to fall. I just wonder if him passing through now negates the magic on it (a la 3ER's batcave magical barrier).[5 Seasons ago, lul](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=upDoPAVExjg)I think the books will deliver this. Realistically I think 'Hardhome' should have happened in early season 6, but Jon's resurrection storyline happened.  I think they showed too much too soon in the show when it comes to the WW. They've painted themselves into a corner a bit. The WW would clearly wipe out Jon's army based on Hardhome. Even w/dragon glass swords and arrows. So we're now building towards some battle at east watch and this whole time we're supposed to think that Jon has a chance. He doesn't. But he's probably going to get help from an unexpected friend at the last minute, which will save the day. Sounds familiar. I like that. I feel like the timeline for them is too stretched out as it is, so they should have either been introduced later or actually started being a serious threat sooner. This ends up with a whole lot of down time where we really don't see them doing anything. i don't see how the 12 guys in a circle 300 style that we see in the S7 trailer can survive Eastwatch. but Jon's not going to die again, so it should be interesting to find out what the deus ex machina is this timeHopefully not Arya. Probably Arya. Probably fucking Arya at this rate. Wasn't it Rickon that was the wild one. And who ever said Ned was the quiet wolf or Benjen the wolf pup?Hopefully not, Arya is still underage...From the "Knight of the laughing tree" chapter in ASOS Bran II:

> There he met her pack brothers: the wild wolf who led them, the quiet wolf beside him, and the pup who was youngest of the four.Ah right, that Brandon Stark. Still I am not sure those are symbolic names like the Young wolf and the White wolf. Seems more like describing how the wolves were acting at that time of the vision instead of formal names.Cersei is towards the Neck, Jamie is toward the Fingers. Valonqar confirmed.how can u not love cersei? like she literally have everyone against her and all she wanna do is kill themJaime is my favorite character, and I hope his arc this season involves ditching Cersei and joining Team Targaryen. 

There were a lot of other great shots in this scene (and episode), but this one really stood out to me. I think if he ditches Cersei he's more likely to head North to fight with Jon Snow. I think that's the completion of his redemption arc. Catelyn Stark releasing him from Robb's jail cell really messed with his head. I think for the first time he felt guilty for what he did to Bran and decided to take his pledge to her seriously and find her daughters. He still feels he owes something to the Stark family. Also, Jaime has acted boldly to save a whole city before when he killed the Mad King. If he goes North to fight with Jon Snow he'd be saving a whole continent. Maybe a whole world. And don't forget, the Lannisters are presumably still in possession of Widow's Wail. Joffrey's Valyrian steel sword made from one half of Ice. That's going to be important in the war against the White Walkers and someone has to take it North.If the prophecy said "a dragon", then we should know that. For all we know it's literally a dragon or has some other interpretation rather than a Targaryen.I was thinking this, too, but then I read [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nsbft/_/dkc0lru?context=1000).The Valyrian word for little sister is haedar. Valonqar means little brother specifically.To paraphrase my fav character in the show, The Hound, 'fuck the spinoff shows'.This is very well put. As I was going through the series in a rewatch leading up to the new season, there was a definite shift in tone after Season 3 and they kind of lost the fantasy elements a bit for me. Season 6 it picks back up, but season 4 and 5 almost seem like they're not sure what to do with themselves.The entire part of the epizode had a very Western feel to it. Only thing that was likeable there.I didn't immediately put together that this was the father and daughter that he came across earlier. When I realized it, it was pretty heartbreaking.I hope hope *hope* that at this point in TWOW we see Dany at SummerHall, so that the damn place will have justice of all the damn hype it has in my heart.>THIS IS WHAT A GOOD FANTASY STORY SHOULD LOOK LIKE. The marriage of the mundane and mystic. Human stories - Sandor's tragic past - mashed up with actual magic voodoo stuff. That's why it's a fantasy story. Magic and sorcery lets writers explore very human, mundane lives with a new lens. Sandor's complicated relationship with fire is fascinating to watch.

Agree, good fantasy and sci-fi uses the supernatural in a way to explore human emotions that can't be done purely in the natural world. This is the strength of story telling in fantasy.upvote for Ben Wyatt. I think that may have been the best scenes we've gotten in a while from a character building perspective. So much growth for Sandor over the whole show but especially since his fight with Brienne and he's only appeared like 3 or 4 times since then. I love his arc and there's been some incredible writing for himI really hated that scene, honestly. It was too much character development, too fast. Suddenly, he goes from refusing to look at fire, to seeing entire short films in it? That's more than Melissandre or Stannis were able to do the entire show. That scene should have taken at least several episodes for him to work up to.I feel like Rory McCann deserves an Emmy nomination for those scenes alone. It was the best acting he's done in GoT by FAR in my opinion. It was absolutely brilliant. Don't worry, Sandor! Those two villagers will come back to life because you didn't burn them! Hurray!I wonder if the Lord of Light favors Clegane because of his childhood fire trauma?This is a minor gripe to most I'm sure, but it annoyed me.

Why did Clegane bring TWO shovels to dig a grave by himself?

Attention to detail is a big deal to me - I was impressed earlier in the episode when Jon and Sansa walked by brand-new, untreated lumber for the new barristers and roofing over the walkways. Winterfell had been burned in the sacking - new lumber would be there of course, but the showrunners could've used the old set and few people would have noticed or cared.

To then have Sandor inexplicably bring out two shovels for a solo gravedig..? Stupid oversight.I just liked the fact that he was Grave digging in an episode. Calling it now , the hound dies this season , is brought back by beric dondarrion with the kiss of life , we know have cleganebowl with the fire zombie and the qyburn zombie , he will be reborn with his fear ( fire) and will no longer be afraid of it It was a good scene, but sort of ruined by the reveal that they're heading to the wall. Might still get some good interactions (Beric/Mel, Sandor/Sansa) but definitely nothing resembling Cleganebowl. Makes me think Sandormay really be the prince who was promised and no one knows it but the lord of light ;) he was reborn of the salt and smoke (percived dead by the septon who saved him) his "rebirth" is a chance for his character to really grow. He also instantly picked up on reading the flames, Beric seemed suprised. How badass would it be for the hound to weild a flaming sword. He'd be like batman, a man with a dark past fighting for the innocent using his own fear as his weapon of choice. This ep tells us; Sandor has always seen in the flames. I had some issue with the Hound, of all people, gaining the ability to look into the flames to see things.  It feels like the only thing the Hound should see in the flames, if anything is the memory of his brother's torments during his youth, always looking towards his past, not towards an unknown future.  Beric seeing the Wall - fine, but not the Hound.

The only other thing I would have changed with that scene though, would have been to have Beric come out, acknowledge the Hound trying to give the dead a good burial, but then to *burn* the bodies instead.  He is associated with the Lord of Light and as we know, there is no hope of saving those people from the Others if they come south - except to burn them, otherwise the living will have to see them again.  Of all people wandering about Westeros, I would have expected Beric to insist upon burning the bodies, instead of leaving them as liabilities.

Otherwise, it was a very poignant scene.I thought it was completely out of character and misplaced. I fully expected him to end his monologue with ... JUST KIDDING, you fucking cunts. A completely non religious dude suddenly seeing campfire legends in the logs did not jive with anything that was setup for his character.

Loras had boiling oil poured on him at Dragonstone. They say he might not make it so prayers upThe "digging the grave" scene was absolutely masterful.OP, you accidentally just gave a pretty good summery of Sacramental theology, btw. Good job. Not to mention the "unlikely companions" story they have going on here. I hope they pick up a few more. Not a lot of people seem to be commenting on the emotional impact of this scene; Sandor has probably *never* had someone acknowledge his pain and help him shoulder a burden without judgment the way Thoros did. The closest we've seen is when he opened up to Arya about how he got burned and let her stitch up his bite wound, but even she was openly contemptuous towards him for killing Micah. Thoros just saw a dude carrying a lot of guilt and said (wordlessly), "I've got your back, brother." It's really getting to me. > Basically, it's a perfect storm of story. It was a great idea to bring back the folks that Sandor mugged back in season 4 and to have him literally grapple with the consequences of his actions.

There literally was no literal grappling at all in the episode.Best part, My favorite storyline atmamazing points. it's also worth pointing out that Sandor is digging a grave...Will he feel this guilt and begin burying all the anonymous dead he meets? is he now Gravedigger?I thought they'd brought him back just for fan service so I was pleasantly surprised with how powerful that scene was. Who knows, maybe they're taking his atonement arc another direction in the show. 

Maybe this season will be decent after all!Well said, sir.All three of Rory, Paul and Richard just killed that sequence. Was easily one of my favorite parts of the entire series. Rory in particular really shows the audience his anguish, regret and grief in a way that's just palpable.Remember the exact episode number where the mugging happens? (or if you got a YT clip to the scene would be great)

I only ever remember the Hound interacting with the common folk when he and Arya stumble upon the dying man and put him off his misery.

EDIT: Holy shit, that must be on the Hound's conscience.I never much invested on Hound's character , but that scene was one great scene. Be it the acting or the dialogues. It just struck the chord. And the last shot was one fantastic one indeed. Last season Hound's return felt like a huge fan service , this season his return finally has substance and purpose.  To also quote Ben Wyatt, and I'm paraphrasing here; "Ice Town ruined my life."When does Ben Wyatt say that in Parks and Rec?I don't think the dead were anonymous. Wasn't this the family that the hound robbed when he was with arya? I don't think they explicitly state it, but the house is about the right size, and its a grown man + little girl.My man just invoked Ben Wyatt. Good post dude. And you're right. It was my favorite part of the episode for sure. I loved the creepy wintery vibe of the entire sequence as well. It all felt right. If Rory McCann doesn't get an Emmy for this episode I'm gonna eat every fucking chicken in this thread.  That was some acting.Loved the part where hes absorbed into looking at the flames, and something physically happens in the fire, like one of the logs collapsing or something. It sends up sparks and ash, and you see the hound flinch and kinda withdraw from the flames, but only momentarily, before once again being absorbed onto what he's seeing. Its a moment when he overcomes his greatest fear by his curiosity to understand what the hell is going on with the damn flames.It was an absolute load of tripe. I actually prefer Beric over Catelyn.Best part of the episode indeed, good thing it had no pandering, inconsistencies or simple stupidity of other parts>"Hey person who doesn't even believe in magic, come over here and look into this tiny, non-magically altered fire."

>"Ok." *Proceeds to list off perhaps the most accurate/detailed vision we've ever seen in ASOIAF with only a second glance*




It was a great set of scenes. At once, how do you grapple with the guilt of what you have done, while confronting the terrible events that will come and your part in them?I don't know why, but this scene is just how I imagine TWOW in my head. Basically the whole vibe from a Feast For Crows, but winter. [deleted]It was undoubtably the best part of the episode, it felt the most true to the ASOIAF world out of any other scenes. I'm fiercely attached to the Hound and his arc, besides Jaime I can't think of any other character that's had as much positive growth.  Agreed! Westworld was great at that as well.I thought that was an excellent Easter egg for fans of the Gravedigger theory.I think that a red priest can invite you to look and see things. Mel did it with Stannis, too. Yeah, in the book. On the show he was in the Sept of Baylor when it blew up, so he's already dead.OMG. true.oh boy youre in for a ride!Man watching the episode again its apparent Thoros has developed a sincere friendship with Sandor.  Thoros offers him a drink at the beginning of the scene.  He helps Sandor see into the flames to find the answers to his dissatisfaction with their purpose.  They talk shit to each other the way friends do.  Compare that to the riddcule and mockery they put Sandor through when they first captured him.  

There's an intentional message here about religion itself.  Its not the words and dogma that matter.  Its the meaning behind the words.  The actions hold divinity.  Thoros and Sandor have been ideal characters for this morality.  How fitting to have them bury the dead.  Sandor took the labor to bury the people he left to die and couldn't even remember the prayer to give them last rights but its ok.  The message is there.    

Sandor's entire character is based on being the anti-knight.  He refuses to swear oaths because he knows its meaningless.  Its the actions that determine virtue.  He is one of the most gallant characters in the story.   That was pretty powerful. 

And I like the change. Maybe this plays into our conception of religion in the real world, and reveals too much about me, but as cool as the Elder Brother and the monks of the quiet isle were, I rather prefer having humble, self-deprecating alcoholic Thoros be the most profound godly character.  Enough of self-important religious leaders.  Give me a man who doesn't judge because he knows he'd come out of judgement poorly, and who helps out in the worst circumstances because no one should do that work alone. Bit of a stretch but maybe it was him putting the bodies in the grave?I think in this case he digs the grave because he caused them to starve when he robbed them in season 4YORICK NEEDS A THE HOUND SKINYes! This is what I was thinking while watching as well. I thought it might be a nice shout-out to the book.Just out of interest, why do you use their first names?The story just doesn't seem to carry the same wait if you use their real names...Season 4, ep 3. 

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VKPEEIuU0toIt's in 4x03, but [here it is](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VKPEEIuU0to) on Youtube.And the mood too. Cold, empty, dark, hopeless."Ice Town Costs Ice Clown His Town Crown."wow ice town = hardhome confirmed i guessIf I remember correctly he and Ann were both bidding on something on eBay and she asks why his username is "talltyrionlannister"Me and my friends looked into the season 4 episode, right after finishing the new episode. Its definitely them. Its the same house. Well, do you know their names?I didn't mean literally anonymous, just...in the grand scheme of things, they might as well be anonymous. But you're right, they are the folks from season 4 that he robbed. He also says to Berric that they won't find ale in the house, which he remembered.\>getting an emmy for looking at a fireplace instead of cleganebowl that was seen in said flamesWhat was your best new theory btw?Wrong show, but I lost all hope in the Emmys when Michael McKean wasn't nominated for his work on Better Call Saul this past season.Come on, an Emmy? Is this the only Drama you watch? I bet we'll see half a dozen better scenes in this season of GoT alone. It won't even be nominated and that will be just.That scene felt so on the nose to me. I kinda wished he turned to Thoros and made fun of him looking at the fire and trying to see something as the scene went on and he kept describing stuff with so much detail etc.He sure doesn't like fire but looking at a fire is not his greatest fear. He uses campfires while traveling with Arya and stares at it while Arya wants to sear the bite wound to stop the infection. He can look at fire he just never wants to be burned again.One of those logs collapsed as he was talking about Eastwatch, so....Now we just need to see him fight a battle around wildfire, like the blackwater pt 2.Are you really hating on that sequence man? Come the fuck onThis. Beric is a well written amd a tragic character while LSH is just a personification of revenge; and a mute undead one at that. I think it's actually The Hound that is taking Catelyn's role. I'm thinking that since they are heading to Eastwatch and a major encounter with the Wight army, The Hound will be killed but before he can become a Wight, Beric passes his fire onto him (just like he did for Cat in the books) and we will get Zombie Hound leading the BwB. 

Which obviously sets up Zombie Mountain vs Zombie Hound (with his new flaming sword) in the Undead Cleganebowl. I wanted to see LSH at first, but it really works better with Beric for the show. 

He also has the best name in all of Westeros.slightly off topic: do you think they refrained from giving Euron an eyepatch because Beric has one?I couldn't possibly agree with this more. Stoneheart is such a fucking corny character, and it's an extension of Catelyn's manic idiocy that the story simply didn't need. Show! Beric has made me appreciate Beric in the books even more than I did before. He's an interesting study in someone who knows that he's valuable but completely doesn't understand why, and instead of being deprecating about it, he's noble and takes it as his responsibility to keep moving forward. 

Also, the awkward bro love between Beric, Thoros and Sandor is so fucking excellent.and arya - instead of being a horrible monster killing everyone and making the BWB less human by her actions, we have super sexy ninja who we all root for.
It's hard to really *like* the LSH story line.  Beric moved pretty far from his human self, he couldn't remember basic aspects of his life, or regular human sensations because he'd died and come back so many times.  But Beric died with a mission in his heart and he continued/s to carry that flame.

Catelyn died with sorrow and vengeance in heart and she carries that.  She is even further from humanity than Beric was and she isn't bring protection or justice to anyway, just wrecking vengeance and havoc in the Riverlands.   His voice alone is reason enough for me.I think that's why I like beric dying, but the show was extremely smart to skip LSH, her storyline is just too packed for the show. In the book, beric is like the physical embodiment of the BWB, even arya is alright with being ransomed by him and helping their cause. She only leaves because they keep pulling her further from her family. 

Berics death was the last hope for the riverlands, they don't have anyone fighting for them at the end of ADWD. Beric is such a good guy because he's literally written to be a hero. Now we just need him to come back AGAIN and marry Jeyne pool, the poor girl was into him, I'm sure beaten JP would be into beaten up beric.
I guess everyone does> good thing it had no pandering, 

The gravedigger thing could easily be pandering, but at the same time, it actually worked for the scene.  The Hound burying the bodies was a really nice touch.  He's now seen the White Walkers, he knows that he deserves to be dead and many others deserve to live, but he can't change that.  All he can do is hope to be better and fight against the threat he just saw.  He had a real religious/magical experience and in conjunction with his recent turn from sin/violence to the Septon's preachings, it stuck.   I thought it worked nicely.  The Hound was burying his old sins, but not to cover them up, but to give respect to those lives and to come to gripes with how the world is now.

> inconsistencies or simple stupidity of other parts

Not sure which parts were inconsistent? 

I think Sandor is likely able to read the flames better than most because he has literally been touched by them. It's possible that is a key aspect in fire magic. Also, Thoros is far more competent than Melisandre and isn't deluded like she is which makes any fire he creates a lot more trustworthy as far as visions are concerned.> Hey person who doesn't even believe in magic, come over here and look into this tiny, non-magically altered fire."

It was pretty clear that Thoros was doing something to the fire... He started it, at least, which may be enough for all we know.

> "Ok." Proceeds to list off perhaps the most accurate/detailed vision we've ever seen in ASOIAF with only a second glance

It really wasn't anymore accurate than the few Melisandre prophecies we have seen. But then we need to factor in that she is a grifter to some degree (almost certainly not a malicious one) and the Hound is no-nonsense.I think the difference is that Mel tries to interpret instead of just saying what she sees. I have to go back and look, but I'm pretty sure there are other characters who are as clear as Sandor. It's not that surprising though.  Sandor is the fire equivalent of Patchface and the drowned god. A fire lit by a guy who repeatedly brought someone back from the dead. 

A person who obviously has the favour of the one god who has been shown to have show his magical powers to his followers many times.The only thing that would have made the scene better for me would have been a small change in dialogue. When the Hound is bashing divine justice, he says "if there was, you'd be dead and that girl would be alive". I think he should have said "I'd be dead" instead. Would have added more weight and emphasized his guilt. Thoros is such a perfect foil for Sandor as he grapples with his past and the prospects of his future. A similarly downtrodden dude who happened upon a chance in life to actually make a difference. And a dude who's not at all afraid of The big bad Hound and all his shit talking. I'm really looking forward to seeing them play off each other as Sandor's story continues.The thing that really got me about this.... It's not his fault they died. He was right back in season 4. They were weak and defenseless and dead by winter. The silver he took wouldn't have stopped that. Sticking around for longer wouldn't have stopped it, and in all actuality it would have probably sped up the process with two more mouths to feed. But he was still feeling guilty for what he did. That's what I mean! A lot of that dialogue about gods, fate, guilt etc could be from any show, any setting - that's the kind of stuff that makes GOT/ASOIAF great. This is perfect> the execution

I thought Rory's acting was incredible from start to finish, but especially during the burial scene. 

In the books, Sandor is (in all likelihood) spending time on the Quiet Isle as a novice monk, and his duty is to dig graves -- presumably a penance for all the lives he's taken prior to abandoning his life as the Hound. So "fan service" isn't the right term for what we saw last night in S7E1, IMO. I think the show was trying to get the same image of Sandor as gravedigger with the associated symbolism.> Seemed more like fan service than anything else.

I've been concerned because I've seen a lot of fan service the last two seasons but I don't agree that this scene was one of them, outside of maybe sandor being a grave digger. Perhaps the show was just saved by the cinematography at that part but as a whole the sequence helps drive home the brutal reality of what "winter" is in this world. It's more than just a slogan.Too bad they did not include Jaime in the show.Honestly, I think just having someone say what the visions are is pretty lame and bad writing.

*Show*.

Do not tell.

I admit it's tough with visions, but Stannis' expression change when he unbelievingly looks tells us all we need to know. He sees *something*.

Having Sandor seeing and just announcing "Well the next episode is us going to Eastwatch to battle White Walkers and the dead" is poor writing.

But aside from that,  it was a great scene with Sandors troubles and arc with the family.I need to re-watch the episode where The Hound killed the father and girl but was Beric voicing why The Hound really killed them - saving them from starvation?> It was undoubtably the best part of the episode

I liked it a lot, but I really liked Jon's council scene.This scene and the scene, that shows silence and Eurons fleet, were extremly awesomeThis! Most of the people I've spoken too mentioned all the other scenes except this one. I felt this was the most relevant and cool scene out of all since everything else seemed expected.

Well Sam's scene was superb too. Great bit of editing. Ed Sheeran drama aside, I think the scene with the soldiers was equally important. Lannister soldiers have been the-bad-guys-in-red the entire show and that was flipped with potentially the nicest characters the show has even had.It was the closest thing we're going to get in the show to the significance of the inn at the crossroads in the books.Jaime had a lot of character growth early on, but unlike his book counterpart, show Jaime seems to have totally stagnated and in many ways done a lot of backsliding.

I can understand that feelings of love can be complicated to the point of inconsistency, but it's practically on a scene to scene basis now that Jaime alternates between reaffirming his undying love for Cersei and properly recognizing how evil and insane she has become.

We got excellent character development during the earlier seasons up until the point he gifts Oathkeeper to Brienne, and now he's betrayed most of that search for honor and nobility by sticking by Cersei's side, even after she's done the very thing that he killed Aerys for.  The most enmity he can seem to muster for her is a disapproving stare now and then.  Assuming he turns out to be the Valonqar (though it doesn't exist in the show), it's going to make his decision kind of underwhelming, I think.not besides jaime.  jaime included, Hound has the best character growth and pathos in the show. > Give me a man who doesn't judge because he knows he'd come out of judgement poorly, and who helps out in the worst circumstances because no one should do that work alone.

Yup. There's a reason Jesus hung with the downtrodden.The key word here is "literally."a shout-out, or maybe a full on sub plot. that would be cool! :) They're very closeBecause I'm talking about the actors' performance, not their characters. I also assume most game of thrones fans know their full names by now.Probably doesn't carry the same weight either"They both be dead come winter"

Holy shit the foreshadowing again. Please tell me someone thought to post this after Jon was killed post-Hardhome.You forgot the most important part though. ITS ALL ABOUT THE CONES.  That episode has my favorite GoT line:

"Hell, yeah! Have you seen those Dothraki dudes? They can get it! Everyone on that show can get it!" - Donna MeagleI think they said their names in the S4 episode, probably not though. I just meant that instead of being a random house we've never seen, its most likely the house that the hound and arya visited.DONT FUCK CHUCK THIS TIMEThat's absurd. What sort of chicanery is going on during the nomination process?FUCK MIKE

CHUCK DIDNT GET NOMINATED I mean, an Emmy is hard to justify on one scene alone, no matter how awesome it is.  It would be necessary to carry that through the rest of the season and given some of the meaty reunions we may yet see I don't think it's out of the range of possibility but certainly a very dark horse.What can I say, I'm on the HYPE TRAIN CHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOoooooooooI agree. The switch in him happened too quickly within this scene, it didn't feel earned to me. If they had shown him struggling with it, or resisting it before finally acquiescing... but he looked into the fire for about 2 seconds before a massive, crystal-clear vision appears. 

Does it have something to do with Thoros being there? I mean, doesn't this kinda thing take training? Practice? An intense focus and strength of willpower? In this universe is it really so simple as taking a peek at a fireplace to get a glimpse into the future, and somehow no one has noticed yet?I felt that way at first too, but then I got interested in The Hound maybe getting used as a pawn of R'Holler. So hoping to get some details of who/what R'Holler truly is and some insight on the whole Azor Ahai prophecy. 

This actually bothered me a lot as the wildlings just got stationed there. So now we have the group of socially disliked outsiders being placed on the front lines where it is strongly suspected they'll get massacred. 

It's like the only time D&D remember historical realism is when they can use it to justify something horrible happening to a B character. So... the Log Lady from Twin Peaks is gonna die?! ShitIt was so fucking stupid. There was no buildup, no foreshadowing, nothing even implied outside of the fact that Sandor hates fire. Yet somehow, this guy who does not believe in the faith whatsoever, looks into a regular-ass fire for ten seconds and can see *the script*, the entire plot of the series so far and everything of importance, with more clarity and specificity than anyone else ever. 

Stannis didn't need Melisandre. He just needed literally anyone else who had ever been born. Yeh I thought of this same thing on Saturday. Zombie v Zombie.If Beric is a fire zombie, and the wights are ice zombies, what is the Mountain?What is hype may never die.  Or...well...it won't STAY dead.This pretty much lines up Sandor to be Azor Ahai.  Its all there.  https://media.giphy.com/media/BYhoMtJMQsYVy/giphy.gifIm actually afraid of a Cleganebowl, because I fear, that The Mountain could actually defeat him x]Fuck. Yes.Krizznazz Zohornz Xondzort of Mereen begs to differ.Yes, almost certainly. I was thinking that while looking at Beric. I was like "if Euron wore one of those too, dumb people wouldn't be able to tell them apart."

And a lot of the general TV watching populace counts as "dumb people".Very possible since there are a large number of characters of which to keep track for the casual watcher.  People are not that observant.  "You know, the eyepatch guy."er she's pretty young broPerhaps Beric will pass on his flame to the Hound after the Hound just barely is defeated/killed by the Mountain in Cleagenbowl?The bit where he's saying he never killed the Targaryan babies is just great. I also like the way Beric says "perhaps she is".If you're looking for more of that actor check out Fortitude, he plays one of the main characters. It's not an incredible show, but it's a very solid psychological thriller/mystery.I'm not going to disagree with LSH storyline being too packed for the show, but I'd take that and ditch the Dorne debacle any day. > Not sure which parts were inconsistent? 

Women on Bear island are already trained for war, Lyanna saying they will train is either redundancy or inconsistency 
I think the whole point was to solidify the fact that they were infact meant to see that vision. Maybe it was a combined push between the red god a the no-legged raven?It's also seemingly pretty clear that the fire visions are a manipulation by the "Lord of Light," the only deity so far in GoT to be shown to have some actual powers. The LoL presumably showed Mel Stannis time after time to put her on a path to lead her to Jon Snow. I don't buy that she misinterpreted anything. She was manipulated into following Stannis to put her in the position she needed to be in to save Jon Snow. She only ever saw what the LoL wanted her to see.

Now we have Sandor. Brought back from the verge of death, survived the trial by combat with Beric, etc. A character that's repeatedly told that the LoL must have a plan for him, but he doesn't buy it. He needs convincing.

Assuming that the fire visions are actually coming from some kind of deity, I don't think it's too much of a stretch to assume that you see what that deity wants you to see in the fire. There's no skill to having these visions. You have the visions if the LoL wants you to have the visions. What you see is cryptic or plain as day depending on the LoL's purpose in showing it to you.An average, run-of-the-mill fire, created with no incantations, powders, spells or other fuckery.


A man who up to this point has shown himself to have as much favor from the gods as Gregor Clegane. >reality of what "winter" is in this world.

To add to this, there is really only one thing Sandor is fearful of and that is fire.  To see the look on his face of what he saw in that fire makes that statement more truer than ever.  Sandor is humbled and he is scared and that look that he gave when looking in the flame was very telling and it is why the scene was so great.Yeah, I think that scene was very important. Flipped what I thought of Lannister soldiers & remembered that some of them are just kids off to fight someone's war. Not to mention they got Arya to smile for the 1st time in a whileI got more distracted by the "This is England"-kidWhen they were first introduced, I thought it would end up being some sort of attack/rape that Arya would have to either fight off, run away from, or be rescued from.

I'm happy they went down the route that there are nice people in bad places etc. GRRM likes the idea that no-one is completely evil for the sake of it, and in the past, in the series, the Lannisters men have seemed to be just evil/rapists etc.Yeah, i got the impression that when arya stopped to speak to them, her plan was to murder all of them. But then they start being nice to her and she becomes conflicted> potentially the nicest characters the show has even had.

It was almost too heavy-handed, though.  Like, this whole crew of soldiers is just super duper wholesome?  No ribald jokes?  No sketchy skeeviness?  It was a bit much.  I understand what it was going for narratively, but I wish it hadn't been quite so over the top.This was a most important scene, I think. It blew away what notions of black-and-white "baddies" Arya might still have. Not to mention make her think of all those she just killed who might have been as complicit as these Lannister soldiers were in the Lannister transgressions against the Starks...I don't know, I think that Jaime is going to be much more at odds with Cersei this season. For one, she still won't even address any of their kids dying, and she's totally obsessed with power and position. She is trying to fight and conquer, but Jaime is trying to prep for winter. Not only that, but assuming Euron brings Cersei her gift, there might be more friction between the two.There's a lot of talk about Jaime as the Valonqar this season. I'm not saying it's wrong, but are there any ideas on how Jaime is able to carry this out? First of all, how does he make it past the Mountain to choke his sister to death? Secondly, even if he is able to murder her, how does he make it out of KL? The major players in KL right now are Qyburn and the Mountain, neither of whom is likely to let Jaime walk.A person who I feel like has not had a lot of character development is Danny, and I mean even less then Jamie

I dont know what the fuck is going on with her, its all about these big visual moments and then using her dragons as super weapons but I feel like they lean on the OP nature of the dragons without really ever peeling back what is in her head.  

> I can understand that feelings of love can be complicated to the point of inconsistency, but it's practically on a scene to scene basis now that Jaime alternates between reaffirming his undying love for Cersei and properly recognizing how evil and insane she has become.

Its confusing to me. Cersei did the very thing that he killed the mad king for. She blew up Kings Landing. 

What the fuck is he still doing there. Is there any scenario where Brienne is forced to kill Jamie, either in single combat or in the field of battle? With the sword Jaime gave her? Why can't a character stagnate and/or fall back into old bad habits? Doesn't that make it more realistic and believable? At least to me, that's relatable. Sometimes people just tread water and don't really know where they want themself to go, so they just stick with what is familiar.I thought I saw the beginning of a change in him this episode. Specifically when he was asking Cersei about who would benefit from the dynasty she is trying to build. Also pause when Cersei says that Tommen betrayed them. I think Jamie's tragic flaw is that he is totally loyal to those to whom he feels he owes "true" loyalty. Cersei was one of those people, but we've seen that start to change. It's gonna take a while for Jamie to accept that his twin and perceived soul mate is a monster who only cares about her own power.With Jaime in the show, his arc seems also be a device to make us hate Cersei that much more.   We almost universally *want* to love the character of Jaime and we have seen moments of his bravery and honor to make us crazy for him to be the man he should be.  Then Cersei pulls the guy we desperately want to be awesome away from the awesomeness and into the sewer of her swamp of hate and manipulation.  

He is a whole character that is not completely there for Cersei in the show.  He has lots of other things going on too but his love for the evil woman we hate makes us root for him more and wish more death on his evil twin.  I could be totally wrong but that is how I see it.I couldn't agree more. His trajectory in the books so far has been paced perfectly. In the show, they were following that same arc until Brienne leaves, as you pointed out. Another key moment is him freeing Tyrion. This was supposed to be Jaime's low point and the beginning of his disillusionment from Cersei.

The most generous interpretation I can see is that they have something in mind that requires Jaime to still be on team Cersei later on (maybe related to Euron, now that we see what's going on there?), and they've basically just had to tread water this whole time viz-a-viz his relationship with Cersei.In the end, Jamie will show us all how difficult it is to leave your abusive partner, how breaking the cycle once you've been isolated can seem impossible. And how there can be love after an abusive relationship assuming Tormund Giantsbane doesn't wife it, first.> I can understand that feelings of love can be complicated to the point of inconsistency, but it's practically on a scene to scene basis now that Jaime alternates between reaffirming his undying love for Cersei and properly recognizing how evil and insane she has become.

I think that is the whole point though. He is trying to come to grips with the love of his life being probably the most malicious and evil person in his life. One doesn't just change their whole body language over night. 


> and now he's betrayed most of that search for honor and nobility by sticking by Cersei's side, even after she's done the very thing that he killed Aerys for. The most enmity he can seem to muster for her is a disapproving stare now and then. Assuming he turns out to be the Valonqar (though it doesn't exist in the show), it's going to make his decision kind of underwhelming, I think.


I think you are misreading Jaimie but idk about this one. IMO he knows Cersei is a crazy bitch and wouldn't hesitate to kill him if he got on her bad side. As a result he is treading lightly and doesn't want to upset Cersei too much. I think D&D realized Jaimes story was progressing faster than the rest of the story and had to stall it for a bit. He will be back on track this season. I don't disagree, but I don't know that Jamie has many options right now.  If he does continue on his arc, he has to go against Cersei, and given her feelings on Tommen, I think Jamie knows that he'd end up dead if he questions her. I don't think it makes sense for him to kill her, yet. His only other alternative is to run off and join another group, but where would he go? There are few people (Brienne, Tyrion) that wouldn't kill him immediately, and he wouldn't know where to find them anyway. Just like he stood by Aerys until the very last moment,  I think Jamie will stay by Cersei's side until he sees her about to do something really dangerous.You are forgetting Jamie and Brienne's awesome interactions at Riverrun.Cannot overstate how much I agree to this. Based on not much more than a hunch, I'm hoping this has been sort of a "holding pattern" for Jaime's character until D&D can get the rest of the GoT universe into a position where Jaime can resume growing.> We got excellent character development during the earlier seasons up until the point he gifts Oathkeeper to Brienne, and now he's betrayed most of that search for honor and nobility by sticking by Cersei's side, even after she's done the very thing that he killed Aerys for.

I can't help but think that Jaime would have acted to stop Cersei if he was around/aware of what happened in King's Landing.  It's also possible that he knows the truth of what he *may* have to do to stop her in the future, and likewise knows that his best chance of doing so is to be close to her.Hopefully, his back-and-forth inconsistency is the whole point of his character development. In a show full of morally gray characters, Jamie is arguably the grayest. One moment he's noble and self-sacrificing, the next he's a destructive fool in a disastrous relationship.I think they've handled show Sandor exceptionally well. I love Rory; he's a great Hound. My only regret is them not exploring the Sansa-Sandor relationship at all. The Hound is such a huge part of Sansa's journey in the Vale. Urgh, I wish we could see it.I'm ready either way!"Rory" "Sandor" 


Yeah, basically the sameIt's definitely them, but I think they are still anonymous in that we don't really know who they were.The little 'previously on game of thrones' segment before the episode started showed this family and showed he hound and arya with them. There's no ambiguity here, it's 100% the family from s4Apparently the BCS finale aired like a week after the deadline for nominations, leaving Michael McKean out in the cold. Yet Jonathan Banks got one, even thought Mike barely did anything this season. (Don't get me wrong cause I love Jonathan Banks, but did he really deserve a nom over McKean?) There may be something more significant going on with Sandor.  Its believed he has an important part in this coming great war and R'Holler specifically chose him for something.  Sandor may have found favor with the god and is thus blessed with visions and divine aid.  I suspect it has a whole lot to do with his burning.  He's the only character literally kissed by fire.  Practically baptized in it.  Would you mind explaining what you're saying in more detail? 

I feel like I get what you're saying but I may have missed your point completely.

Thanks [removed]You're entitled to your hot take, but it's absurd. This was a fire lit and tended by a wizard capable of resurrection, with said revenant in the room. It's reasonable to assume the Lord of Light or whatever power the priests tap into is present in that room.[removed]But rises again, harder and stronger... and probably saltier.I assume the final test would be for Sandor to quench his sword in a freshly-cooked chicken?Even better. Ups the suspenseZOMBIE CLEGANEBOWL GET HYPEAll hail Duck Sauce, thank you very much!But you think they'd at least put the scar over his eye or something.That, and I feel it's harder to emote crazy eyes with an eyepatch. Beric is more subtle portrayal, so it's not affected as badlyNot that young, not in real life. The "super sexy" thing was still weird, though.She is actually 20 years old. She does look younger thoughIn all honesty I'm fairly certain Sandor will die at Eastwatch-by-the-Sea and that's when Beric will pass the flames to him. " This wouldn't stop me let alone a bear. " He's one of the main reasons I like that show.It's more like the Season 6 Wildfire resolution debacle.  All the succession rules were thrown out the window for plot and casting popularity reasons.  Cersei somehow succeeds to queen, Lady Former Tyrell now somehow leads the Tyrells, Dorne somehow decides to follow Sand Snakes.She said they were gonna train every man, woman, boy, and girl. So if the female parts are redundant, the male parts are equally so. But it's not redundant because most peasants aren't trained at all. Jon's plan is to train everybody.     So... at what point does a soldier finish training?  When are you just... done?  When can you say that you no longer need training?Noblewomen on Bear Island are trained, but I assume that like low-born men, low-born women aren't actually trained. I loved the episode, but I'm not a big fan of how everyone in the North has so much respect for Lyanna Mormont. I don't care how badass she is, it doesn't make any sense for these grizzled lords of the North to be stumbling over their own words and beliefs because of what one little girl says to them. She really does pull me out of the show.I thought she just announced that to put the other lords in their place Maybe. I have no idea.Also, I think the location of where Sandor finally decided to see for himself whether Thoros and Beric were full of shit or not is really important. I don't think he's ever hit the level of guilt before, and to take that a step further, never felt that much of a desire for redemption. One thing I've always been fascinated by in GOT/ASOIAF is the powers of gods and their limitations. Like, we could certainly *assume* the Lord of Light has enough foreknowledge of events that getting Mel to follow Stannis was a way of putting her in a groove that would lead her to Jon's corpse. But perhaps not: perhaps there's a certain part where free will took over. Perhaps her free will is less important because she chooses not to exercise it as much; she's always seeking to serve her god and ready to interpret his signs. Perhaps she really was supposed to end up seeing that divinely-inspired rebellions tend to fail, and she's best sticking with a real dynasty like the Targaryens. Who can tell?

We really don't know how much of that is attributable to the divine and how much to man. It's more fascinating that way than if the Old Gods, the Seven and the Lord of Light (in addition to all those other crazy Essosi cults) were constantly intervening in obvious ways, or if they never intervened at all. They sometimes can, but there's only so much they're able to do. That's super cool.Think of Berric as a conduit for others to access the lord of light.Stannis sees visions in mundane fires back at the end of season 2. Besides, I'm pretty comfortable with the implication that as magic gets stronger, more people will have encounters with magic. 

It's interesting, because the whole beginning of the scene sets up the significance of the fire in a literal sense - cold people, blizzard coming in, etc. And that in turn sort of gives the fire a power in the scene, makes it more important than just something in the background. So it felt natural to me that the fire was something to look into, I guess. The  fire doesn't have to be lit in a certain way for a god to manifest in it if said god desires it.

Except winning the duel, despite of course him claiming it was because he was better.
I don't think the show has had as much of an emphasis on the skill needed to read fires. In ADWD Mel thinks about how she was extremely gifted with it, but in the show she has stannis look into the fire (S2E10) and he gets pretty freaked out, so we already know its possible for people to be given the visions without practice.

Taking only the show cannon, its not really a problem that the hound saw a vision, especially since they already know the Others are coming south (Or at least that "Cold winds are rising in the north").GRRM also likes the idea that the only the nobles are to blame for tragedy, while the peasants only suffer while trying to live.I got the feeling that she's planning to wait around until one of them is killed, then will take their face. Sort of reminded me of Jaqen at the beginning when they met. He wore a Lannister uniform and she accused him of becoming one of them. She absolutely was going to murder them, and she decides not to when the soldier speaks about how his mother said that if you are good to others they'll be good to you. You can see her change of heart when she swaps from declining the food to accepting it.Of all the scenes in game of thrones to call over the top, I find it funny to choose this one lol. I do see what you're saying though.> I understand what it was going for narratively, but I wish it hadn't been quite so over the top

Arya's entire storyline since leaving the Hound, in a nutshell. To be fair, I think she's the hardest character to write of all the leads, but I really don't think the show writers have really worked out *who* she is and what her purpose in the story is.I doubt they were perfect. More than anything, they seemed tired. They were vets of a war spanning years and had probably done their share of murdering under Lannister orders. It was like the last dropping into Band of Brothers in the last few episodes when everyone's just like, "Fuck it. I'm sick of fighting."Things have to be heavy handed at times or the majority of the viewers wouldn't understand it.It's an interesting contrast with Arya and the Hound meeting the Lannister troops in....season 4? When she kills Polliver. Those guys were just a gang of assholes. I think her internal justification for the Winter Feast will be that everyone who died had Frey as a last name. The guys she met on the road wore Lannister colours but weren't Lannisters.Seems more human to me. Cersei is clearly a terrible influence on him and he did well away from her, but regressed when he returned... the true development will lie in his manning up when she's around.I agree, just because he seeks redemption does not mean he suddenly decides to kill Cersei and commit suicide (or be hanged). The more realistic option is trying to help her rule and prevent her from going bat shit crazy. It would take a lot more than Cersei killing her enemies in questionable ways to convince him to murder the love of his life.WHY ALL THIS LOVE FOR JAIME


I mean seriously

He always been selfish even at his most "noble"


He killed the mad king when he ordered him to kill his father...not because of any selfless need to protect that shit - hole known simply as kings landing

He saved Briane of tarth because of personal affection


He literally raped his sister AFTER saving tarth

He loves cersei...and always will


He may never get true redemptionShow Jamie is still clinging to his love for Cersei, whereas in the books Jamie has seemingly given up on Cersei. The extension of Jamie's arc in the show doesn't bother me too much Hah I was referring to the commenter and the actors being close friends, on a first name basisMcKean had plenty of great scenes before the finale anyway. Awards truly don't mean anything.>R'Holler

R'HOLLA AT YA BOI!!! LOOK INTO EM FLAMES HOUND DAWG YOU GON SEE SOME SHIT I AIN'T EVEN TRIPPINI think the point he's making is that historically the people on the frontlines in danger were the *undesirables* in society.  
  
For example the slave soldiers of a Spartan army. 
  
not **always** true of course but as a rule you don't put the most valuable people in as cannon fodder. 
  
/u/BroomPerson21 /u/LetsGoChuckTaylor

Both of you, please follow [Rule 1](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/about/rules) of this subreddit and refrain from being rude or condescending to others.[removed]thanks. i think a lot of people are confusing girl power for sex appeal when in reality thinking of the women as sex objects kind of undermines their important roles>  All the succession rules were thrown out the window for plot and casting popularity reasons.

Power resides where men believe it resides.

Cersei crowns herself because she controls the Iron Throne and asks all the other kingdoms for submission but none of them will do that.

Dorne believes, for some fucked up reason, the Sandsnakes to rule so they rule.

The Reach is ruled by the Tyrells and Olenna is the last surviving Tyrell even if only by marriage. I actually like the consistency. You could assume that in the GoT show universe, when a lord dies childless, their spouse succeeds. I agree though that it would have been nice if they had explained it.It is explained. You just didn't understand itWhat do you need explained?

Cersei is queen because she killed everyone who would stop her from becoming queen and then declared herself queen.

Is there something from the last two episodes to indicate Lady Olenna is the official head of House Tyrell, or is she just the de facto leader? If it's the latter, I don't see the problem; that's always been the case.She didn't succeed to Queen, she usurped the throne for herself.Training isn't like gaining a level in an rpg... you don't stop.  Even if they were all trained, they'd keep training.I mean, she's the ruler of Bear Island, which is an important house.  Likely they want to be respectful with hopes of marrying their sons to her to get some of that Bear Island action. Agree. It was 100% the right moment for that redemption arc to really begin. He's flirted with it a few times but you could tell this was different for him. Just the willingness to look into the flames is massive. First because his obvious fear of fire and all the baggage that carries, but then also with how confrontational/dismissive he's been about the LoL (and really all religion) so far.

So excited to see where they take that character, and what happens if/when he crosses paths with Brienne again.I think the Lord of Light is not real and the visions in the flames are just from raven sight showing the natural order of things. Ramsey likely would have burned Shireen and Stannis would have rallied, but the vision was read as a call to action, which caused an opposite outcome.Agreed. It makes the interplay between the religions a lot more interesting.

I'm assuming the Lord of Light's limitation (much like the old gods with the werewoods) is the existence of fire and the willingness of the individual to really take a look. Then once you're in, he's omniscient enough to know what to show you to get you to do what he wants. 

I like the idea of free will in GoT religions because it seems like generally less of an issue. The seven seem to be the only religion that has a concrete concept of sin, whereas the way Mel talks about the LoL makes it seem as if everyone is just a pawn and that no matter what you do, it's a part of his plan. And of all the religions, the seven are the only ones from whom we've seen no supernatural power/ability...and it seems to bear the most resemblance to an existing world religion.

The many faced god seems the most interesting in that regard, with his followers identifying literally as no one, and some manifestations of powerful magic in his followers with the face swapping. And then there's the whole offering/promising of names, which brings even more complication by the end of Arya's training. He was promised a name and that wasn't delivered upon. We never see what the consequences of that would be because the Waif kills Lady Crane, but then a new name is promised and subsequently not delivered. Arya is named, but the Waif is the one who is killed. And based on Jaqen's reaction, that's seemingly no big deal. Someone (who was actually no one) died so the god is satisfied. It's a weird one.Stannis is always a bull being led by his nosering by Melisandre for his "visions". And to the best of our knowledge, [Stannis doesn't even see anything](https://youtu.be/0sx8Yu_n23c?t=2m48s). The same way an army of crusaders being re-emboldened by the sign of the cross doesn't necessarily mean they saw Christ himself, Stannis merely looking at a fire and not prophesying or even saying he sees anything specifically doesn't necessarily mean he saw anything. And even if he did see something, it was most likely wrong since I have a hard time believing he charged headlong at a future where he burned his daughter to death only get the last of his loyal bannermen and himself killed. So does any fire lit by any Red Priest become a seeing fire? For how long? Could braziers lit by Melisandre still be used at Castle Black if they were maintained? Or if said god can supposedly manifest himself in whatever fire he pleases, why does he only do so in the presence of Red Priests, despite their being plenty of devout and pious people to reveal himself to?

If you go too deep trying to defend the Hounds absurd prophecy, you begin to unravel the Red God mythos until its completely arbitrary and functions as a DEM whenever the plot calls for it. 


Gregor also won a trial by combat in the eyes of the gods. I think they say "strangers" instead of "others" in the show. Which is kinda nice, since she seems to be the stranger from the faith.Oh, she's still gonna murder them.What do you mean? She is no one.I don't think these guys were veterans. I think they may have been reasonably fresh recruits, mustered from the Westerlands to the King's Landing and then sent to the Riverlands as their potentially first assignment. There's no wear and tear visible on them. I really doubt they have seen a real battle. If they have, then it wasn't really properly conveyed.I saw it a bit different, they were all young and pretty clean shaven and fresh. I think this is a group of soldiers that was raised after the Rob battles and Kings Landing. They were naive youths who signed up for adventure.

They don't seem like broken men, they never even leered at Arya or considered robbing her like most of the soldiers we have seen. It's just a group of young men who realize being a soldier sucks and want to go home.


Since they signed up they've been ordered from post to post, seeing the Kingdom after the battles and raiding, seeing people starving and having to execute criminals/bandits. There hasn't been any adventure or huge battles to make or break them. They are just armed men now disillusioned by the state of their kingdom. Compare them to the Lannister men who were out looking for Gendry and casually murdered.

Arya is used to broken men and conniving murderers. Joffrey, Meryn Trant, Ilyn Payne, the gang of soldiers who tried to capture Gendry, and Sandor have been her examples of Lannisters and their men. 


Now shes confronted with normal soldiers, not so different than Hot Pie or Gendry, and realizing they are just normal guys.
     I'd probably have liked the scene a lot more with a gritty, end of Band of Brothers "fuck all this" vibe than the way they played it.  Instead it was all newborn baby this and mum and dad and grandma that so nobody could possibly miss Arya's budding moral quandary.  I dunno, maybe I'm being uncharitable. Definitely need a rewatch.Definitely. Humanity out of nowhere :)Did they all have Frey names, though? I'm just saying you both might be making the same assumption.All the Freys Arya killed had something to do with The Red Wedding. It seems I have very different views of his character arc.l than you do.

I see Cersei as a theme in his character, but not central to his story. 

I see his story as one of the failed hero. Similar characters have existed - at the beginning hes the shining star, perfect human, has everything he needs, cocky, etc.

A big event occurs that throws them to the bottom, and experiences the hardships associated with being outside of affluence, and through time discovers that the status they held wasnt truly heroic. 

At the end they redeem their original misdoings displaying true heroism and earning the role they previously held through arrogance and aflfuence.

Where I see Cersei playing in is his previous life. She embodies the affluent, and pulls him to his previous self. His journey to overcome that will hopefully be when he kills her as the valonquar and joins the battle against winter. 
Fuck dude, just want to say something about your comment has just committed me to a re-read. 

Jamie is definitely one of the most interesting characters, and I don't think the show truly catches that. 

The Jamie chapters in Dance were some of my favourite from the books. Which at the start of the books I would have never thought that, as I hated Jamie and everything Lannister's. > in the books Jamie has seemingly given up on Cersei.in the books Jamie has seemingly given up on Cersei.

With emphasis on "seemingly". Right now, he is mad at her because he has just learned that she cheated on him. We don't know how their relationship will develop in the next books.Show Jaime doesn't know she cheated on him constantly while he was in the RiverlandsI always got the sense in the books that Jaime was a bad ass.  Show Jaime seems lame in comparison.I thought this by the end of season 6 and this episode strengthened it, jaime's not clinging to his love for cersei he's clinging to his love for cersei as it was before he was captured, and hes now realizing that he is disgusted by this new, cold, distant cersei and with tommen gone theres nothing left connecting them

He will turn on herOhhh, now I feel like a fool :PI agree, and I agree that they don't. But it's still nice to see the people who take you on such rich and emotive journeys get acknowledged for it, and it still stings when those who affected you the most don't get the recognition they deserve. But, commanding the vanguard ("van") is seen as an honourThis is the main point, though I'd use African-Americans in the second world war as a more apt comparison since the wildlings are voluntarily involved in the conflict (more or less). 

The second really is how D&D play fast and loose with historical and general realism while GRRM tends to follow it strictly. This is particularly notable in situations with popular characters e.g. Lyanna Mormont, Arya, Tyrion, etc.A good point.

The cynical reasoning is enough to justify the placement of the wildlings -- wouldn't want any more friction between them and northern houses as this point.

But, they also have quite the collection of trained warriors and a civilian population used to living off of the land in winter conditions. It certainly does make sense *logistically* to send them to Eastwatch. 

Then, we also need to set them up there for plot reasons too. #GetHypeWell, I don't think thinking of them as "sex objects" necessarily undermines their important roles (it certainly can, but it doesn't have to), but that's a different discussion.

I mostly think it was weird in this case because Maisie Williams/Arya's presence on the show is (intentionally) about as far from sexy as it gets, which means this person has a "weird" definition of sexy, which wouldn't be that strange at all, if they didn't plop it into unrelated comments out of nowhere.My headcanon for the Reach is that the main Houses with good claims are laying back to wait.
If Dany wins, they can distinguish themselves by fighting hard for her and make a strong claim for the Lordship and Wardenship. Olenna will die soon, after all. If Cersei wins, they can wash their hands in innocense and say: "Well, I wasn't in charge. By the way, did you see how quickly I turned over to you? Did you see that?" 

Sandsnakes, yeah, no idea why Dorne considers kinslaying bastards to be good rulers. Unless they consider them stewards for Dany who has a very distant claim to Dorne.Also, when the Sand Snakes killed Doran Martell, the show specifically showed the guards standing back and not intervening. There was a reason it showed guards all around her with their hand on their weapons and not using them when she said "your people don't respect you. Weak men will never rule Dorne again". It was pretty clear it meant to show that the people agree, and they're ok with the SS taking out the old leadership and assuming it for themselves. The one guard basically looked down at Doran dying with disgust.The men of House Tyrell were never particularly bright. Even if some cousin or brother is the head of the House, Olena's the one doing the leading. Just as she did with Mace.Pretty much. Plus, the plebs are used to hearing about Queen Cersei, so to the common folk it might make sense. It's not like anyone's in a position to say otherwise.Not really sure what your response is meant to address in my statement?  I took Lyanna's statement to mean that every single individual on Bear Island would begin training to fight.  I think in current Westrosi culture, it's just high-born people who have the time and resources to learn/train. Keep in mind that she was one of the few who supported Jon against the Boltons. I imagine since the Starks won, she has a bit more clout.That's true I suppose.I mean, Stannis looks into the flames, Mel asks if he sees anything, and he says "yes." Stephen Dillane plays that scene as Stannis seeing something shocking in the flames. Then, in season 3, Stannis straight up tells Davos that he has seen a "great battle in the snow." And in the books - I know they're separate canons - Stannis describes in detail some of the visions he has. Yes trying to explain why a god does things is not something you can do. If that feels like cheap storywriting to you I can't help you.

Gregor won a trial by combat in the eyes of the Seven. In the hound vs Beric trial Thoros specifically calls out the Lord of Light to judge the trial.no, i actually expect Stark forces to do that. Which will set Arya up for a serious moral conflict.I've just replied to someone else saying this but Arya (as Walder) makes a point of saying how everyone in the room helped with the Red Wedding. Given she left the women alive (because they either married into the House or would marry out and thus change their name), I think it's a safe bet that the men were Freys.Did they, though?Hopefully he'll find out sooner than later. I'm expecting Cersei and Euron to get it on once he returns with her "gift". That'll probably push Jamie over the edge tooThis episode was interesting hearing Euron talk about Jamie and how badass he was back then.Short travel between "Kingslayer" and "Kinslayer." And Cersei actually did the thing that Jamie was trying to prevent the first time.She's gonna get the full Aerys.I agree completely The annoying thing is that when he turns on her, it isn't because of character development on his part, but because it is convenient for the plot.  He's already developed into someone who will turn on her, but he just trudges along because it's not convenient for the plot's timing for her defeat.  He's acting out of character until she dies and it's irritating.

Book Jamie's more satisfying because he's acting reasonably like someone in his position would act.I don't think we'll see it sooner than later. The trailers give the impression he will be leading Lannister forces on a battlefield. It seems he will do as Cercei has demanded and lead the crown's army (appears to be a Lannister only coalition at this point) against their infinite enemies. It's infuriating. They show seems to have really messed up the timeline related to Jamie and Cersei with no Winds of Winter to direct them.Oh me too, I would love it if he actually got awarded for his performance as he deserves. But I'm sure he's at least aware of the praise he got from most of the viewers, and I hope it still means a lot to actors like him.there's a difference between being the point of the spear of a planned successful assault, and being the part of the line that isn't expected to hold and is sent to certainly die. 
  
i get your point thoughBut Jon and the wildlings don't know the WWs are going to go through eastwatch.

Unless you mean that the show writers should be 'blamed' for placing them there, but that's stretching it a bit. Can't look at a story by putting yourself out of it. (I mean you can, but then it's hard to look at things logically when you start considering the author's biases and other stuff)Can you expand on the second point? I agree with it but it's hard for me to be really explicit, and I'd love to hear your take.I'm a little confused, is your implication that African-American soldiers were disproportionately put on the front lines in WWII? My understanding is that the opposite was true, although for reasons that would be considered racist in the current day. They were often relegated to support roles because the officers thought they would be inferior in combat: https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/1h6d6z/how_where_black_american_troops_treated_in_europe/What, you're *not* turned on by mass poisonings?Also true, under normal circumstances she'd get land belonging to some of the traitors and the Starks would arrange for a good and profitable marriage.  But this isn't a normal situation and Jon is way more worried about the Night King than normal societal rules and obligations. Presence of Dragons also makes magic stronger. Not a big stretch to believe dragons being EVEN CLOSER than normal would intensify magic that much more.

Also we could say oncoming White Walker army intensifies magic more as well, seeing as Melisandre's powers were amped up at the Wall.

It wasn't the worst scene.Except it is something you can do because there is an author writing it. Based off of everything we know about GRRM, he is probably the last author he would write a god only for them to be completely random and arbitrary and constantly break their in-universe rules. 





>Gregor won a trial by combat in the eyes of the Seven. In the hound vs Beric trial Thoros specifically calls out the Lord of Light to judge the trial.


According to the faith of the Red God, he is the only god. Either he showed favor to both Gregor and Sandor or neither. It you attribute it to Thoros asking for judgement, you're back into your "Red Priests kind of matter but they also don't matter, having faith kind of matters but it also doesn't matter, etc." quagmire again. 

If the next episode doesn't open with her walking away from a camp full of dead soldiers I'll be surprised. If this is a set up for some kind of moral crisis is going to be one of regret.Arya makes a point of saying that whilst posing as Walder. The response from the crowd would imply they agree.Sadly I'd have rather seen it than heard about it through another character.

EDIT: Apparently those downvoting much prefer having things described in the visual medium as opposed to shown. We've heard about Jamie's skill since S1, why does Euron bringing it up give it more meaning or make it enjoyable 7 seasons in?Do you really think he has deveolped into someone that will turn on her, or are you giving the show more of a benefit of the doubt than me?

Other than the occasional look of brief shock (returning to KL in S06E10) every time he has talked about her or to her last season he has reaffirmed his undying love for her. The scene with Edmure comes to mind in particular.

I don't know if D&D wanted to go in this direction with Jaime on purpose or it's just a casualty of cutting LSH, but his show plot is far weaker than the books. His redemption and growth is almost non-existent in my opinion.

In S4 it looked like he was going to continue to grow by starting to be worried about his entries into the white book, but it seems that whole part of Jamie is non-existent and it went literally nowhere after S4 (I don't think they had a solid idea of what they were doing with him post S4 which I think is evident by his story line S5+)

Do you agree? If not can you tell me what makes you believe that he has shown he will turn on her? I totally agree at this point when he does it will be because of plot convenience, I just don't think it's in character for Show Jaime to turn on her.My pet theory is that Euron will make off with Tyrion as his "priceless gift" and Jaime will have to make a final choice regarding both his siblings lives. That's just my guess, though.And the whole "history repeating" with Jaime having to make the choice the kill the ruler for the good of the realm. Oh you summed it up pretty well. That's so on point.I don't think they feel like having to introduce another character to work alongside Cersei. Jaime's really the only character in the show left to her. Qyburn, sure, but he's not a military man. (In similar "serve-the-show-not-the-story" fashion I think Sansa not telling John about Littlefinger and the army of the Vale was just so they could set up Battle of the Bastards to be what it was. Which I'm fine with, it made for a good episode.)The Lannister will most likely gain the support of the iron borns, tarly's and arryn?I don't know, I think you can make the argument that he'd be leading the forces for a few other reasons than his love for Cersei. He's the heir to his house (while diminished from debt and war, the Lannister lands and seat are still important and valuable). He's got a stake in making sure his family isn't wiped out-- the importance of family standing has been drilled in his head, and now his only remaining ally in the family, while crazy, is the ruling monarch. At this point, running to Daenerys is a huge risk; he literally murdered her father and even Tyrion's influence (if he had the will and power) would probably not save him. Dorne would not protect him, nor would the North. He has no choice but to fight for his sister. And maybe he sees himself as the only thing standing between a Mad Queen Cersei and what's left of her realm. Pretty sure he's going to lead a force in literally the next episode. He's got plenty of time to turn. It's happening. Then Cersei will probably marry Euron too, assuming he doesn't cause her Demose first... which is more likely TBH Jon says in the episode that that is most likely where the attack will come.  It's the whole reason Eastwatch comes up.Didn't Jon say something like "last time we saw the walkers they were at Hardhome, closest castle is Eastwatch" before sending the wildings over there? 
It's South Park history. Operation get behind the darkies phase 1 strategy in the great Canadian war. 

Edit spHaha, no. But it's not even that. Arya is just presented as a very unsexy, tomboyish, almost homely girl.Thoros asked for the Lord of Light to judge the Hound. No one asked the Lord of Light to judge anyone at the trial in which the Mountain fights.

GRRM is all about quagmires, though. He's even said that he'll never address whether the gods - including R'hllor - are even real. He loves this ambiguity stuff, and intentionally sprinkles it all through the series. Magic in ASOIAF is not exactly rule-based, not like some works that have complex pseudo-physics systems for magic. Magic in ASOIAF is specifically unpredictable and unexplainable, and the gods may or may not exist. My theory is that he will turn on her because he'll find out she turned on him. He's already backed her despite her mirroring the actions of the Mad King (for which Jamie killed him) and their children are dead, so it would have to be something personal.

They could use aspects of the valonqar prophecy, and play up all that Cersei did to fight it. She's a smart woman and I doubt it never passed her mind that 'little brother' could mean Jamie as well... she doesn't want to kill him, so what if she arranges it so that he is physically incapable of fulfilling that prophecy? How does she die? Little brother wraps his **hands** around her neck and chokes the life out of her. So what if he only had *hand* singular? With their connections, it'd be easy enough for Cersei to arrange for Locke to remove his dominant hand.I would definitely be okay with this but if Euron captures Tyrion he's gonna get his tounge cut outCareful the responses you get to this post as we know from filming leaks last year exactly what/who the gift is. Someone might confirm/deny or outright state what the gift is.

Just wanted to give you a heads up.I think, Tyrion will save Jaime later on, by convincing Daenerys not to kill him.
Daenerys is not stupid, she knows, that her father was an evil piece of filth.

Tyrion is save tho, dont think Euron is capturing TyrionThe Iron Islands have declared their own king, though they may support Cersei in an alliance. The Tarlys are bannermen to the Tyrells. I don't see why they would support the queen who blew up their liege lords. Robin Arryn is under Littlefinger's thumb and his knights just saved Jon and the Starks. The vale was neutral for the war of the five kings and they went against the crown as soon as Littlefinger married Sansa to Ramsay. > He's the heir to his house 

hes not. last time i checked he was still kingsguard? which makes tyrion the heir.I think that is the key point. Jamie is not loyal to Cersei, Jamie is loyal to the Lannister name. He has two siblings at war with one another and he will someday have to choose sides and I think he may love Tyrion more than Cersei at this point. He's not the heir to his house so long as he serves as the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard. Perhaps Cersei will forgive him his vows, but IIRC that hasn't happened yet.Yes, I think this is exactly right. It's part of why Brienne is so important to his story arc. She is the only person who believes in him outside of his family (and even then Cersei is too narcissistic to really even know him). But in spite of her importance to his character development, Brienne doesn't actually offer any viable alternative for Jaime. He can't exactly join her and the Starks in the North. To most of Westeros, he is the Kingslayer. For all practical purposes, he is trapped supporting his family legacy, and that includes Cersei.

That's why I think he will die after killing Cersei. In spite of his personal growth, there's not much possibility for his future, and he seems to know it. > Then Cersei will probably marry Euron too

That makes it even worse. He'll turn against her as a stilted lover.Yeah, everyone expects them to be coming through Eastwatch first, that was the point of sending reinforcements thereSo contact with the Red God is necessary for him to intervene? What he says and what he does are two entirely different things though. Saying, "I will neither confirm nor deny if any gods exist" while simultaneously having one faith have the ability to resurrect the dead, heal wounds, imbue people with superstrength, see the future, cast fire, shapeshift and so on whereas the other faiths have almost no miracles/powers attributed to them. 


You're really going to say that there is no rhyme or reason to any of the magic in Westeros when we have something as detailed and structured as Warging?My issue isn't so much a will he or wont he, rather that other than Jaime's reaction(s) w/Brienne last year he hasn't grown in his relationship with her (and I don't really count his interactions w/Brienne as any real change to his relationship with Cersei). He has been unflinchingly devoted to her regardless of her actions thus far. In the books we obviously see the rift begin to grow, in the show, like I said outside of a side-eyed look he gave her every indication is he is just as in love with her as he was since the beginning if not more.

I can't say much has changed for Jaime since the end of S3. In S4 he seems to care about what's in the white book, and he gives Brienne Oathkeeper, but after this he has largely had filler or meaningless to his development story. His relationship with Cersei seems unchanged for his part in it. 

S6 Jaime literally followed Cersei around a couple episodes, got booted out of KL to do his Riverlands stuff, came back and is now right at her side again. What happened at the Sept and with Tommen didn't seem to be of any real bother to him. He brings it up and she basically says they're dead, hon, move on, and he is like ok, well we need better allies.Tyrion is Hand to the Dragon Queen. Ain't no way anyone's getting to him unless it's through Dany.I've kept myself away from any set leaks for this season, so I'm only going off what seemed to be heavily implied in the first episode (in my opinion, of course)I like to think that after the sacking of King's Landing, Tyrion and Dany will walk into the burning castle to see Cersei sitting on the throne with ashes raining everywhere.

Dany will offer Cersei the chance to surrender peacefully. It will be declined. Tyrion will then plead to his sister asking her not to do this, saying she had nowhere to run, or something like that. Ultimately he still loves his sister. He'll get too close and Cersei will lash out and start strangling him, and then Jamie will finally turn on her.

"Danaerys Stormborn. 20 years ago, I ended your father's life and enabled Robert Baratheon to steal this throne from you. I offer my apologies, and request to return it to you." - or something.Not sure Randyll is keen on joining the Pawnee Goddesses The Tarlys have the second bigges army, and they are actually interested in gaining power. Dany is not an option for them.

Yes but I can see Littlefinger joining Cercei, when he realizes that Jon would rather see him dead, than aliveRealistically he is. Cersei makes the rules for her Queensguard now, and Tyrion has been disinherited. Uncle's are dead. And no random cousins would dare show up at this point to challenge the inheritance. Edit: as someone above also pointed out, Jaime was released of his duty to the KG by Tommen last season. I thought Tommen had him step down from the KG after Jaime attacked the sept in s6?In S6(?) Tommen "released" (fired) him from his vows/KG.
I see Jaime doing something very noble or even becoming Lord Commander of the Nights watch, but he definitely does not have to go out with Cercei. He may kill her, but he already survived another Kingslayin ;P

Well in the books one of his main gripes with Cersei is that she slept with Lancel. I wouldn't mind that being what makes him turn. Just as long as he turns...Yeah that would be bad for the character. It'd not be a moral choice or anything like that, it'd be just because Cersei dumped him in a way once again.Exactly.  The decision teenage Jaime, still dominated by his father and his need to rebel against that, makes to stay involved with his twin even after she marries someone he detests is one thing.  But middle-aged Jaime, after burying his father and all his children, and losing the swordsmanship that gave him his identity, making the same decision again?  I can't see it. 

It's getting a little stagnant now, watching him go through the same struggle in episode after episode. But it seems like that development would finally spur him to make a change. Yeah exactly. It'll just push him further. I sort of have a hard time expecting her to live through the actual marriage, likely it's known to be fact and then something stops it. IMO. But Jaime still knows and is pretty mad. 

Not before we see Euron bang her on the throne in some designer threads from Sothros can they die. Without any definitive information on how gods work the only tentatively answer would be apparently yes.We don't know that any gods exist, what we do know is that a certain group of people can use fire magic for divination, ressurection, healing and other things, and that they believe they are able to use this power because of a god. It could be that the rituals/traditions associated with Red God worship are just magic spells, and a formal religion is a convenient way to control who uses the magic and why.

We have also seen the Old Gods produce impressive magic such as warging, weirwood visions (and arguably the Others' ice magic could be included here). What we have seen from Bran is that this is a form of ancestor worship, as the spirits of past greenseers inhabit the weirwood network, but it could be argued that they are a form of god in their own right.Not that there's no rhyme or reason, just that it's not 100% structured. Besides, it's not clear if R'hllor worshippers figured out the right god to worship OR if they just attribute all the disparate magic in the world to one made-up source. Melisandre, for example, attributes her shadowbinding to R'hllor, but it's not clear that other shadowbinders - like Quaithe - have the same opinion, or that other R'hllor priests can shadowbind like her. 

I'm not saying it's goofy random and has no logic whatsoever, just that GRRM likes ambiguity in his magic. Skinchanging is the same way, to be honest; yeah, we kinda understand the mechanics of how it works - there's a soul, and a body, and you can jump your soul into a different body if you're good enough and have the right touch - but it's still not clear *why* some people are skinchangers and some aren't. And imo it'll never be clear - that's the element of randomness and ambiguity. If he's on a boat with the whole crew in that crazy boat battle from the trailer he's not untouchableI dont see, why Jaime would have to apologize. I think if Jaime and Darnerys would meet, Jaime wouldnt apologizeThe Tyrells are extinct - only Olenna remains who a) is a Redwyne by birth and b) is a bazillion years old and sure as seven hells won't produce any heirs (who wouldn't be elligible to inherit Highgarden regardless).

So, as the now strongest power in the Reach, joining with the winning side is an almost certain way to gain the titles of Warden of the South and Lord Paramount of the Reach for the Tarlys.  And at the moment, like Jaime said, Cersei and her forces for sure don't look like the winning side.

We also know that Randyll Tarly hascno love in his bones for the Wildlings. Since the Ironborn lead kind of similiar lives to the Wildlings, I think it's safe to assume that Randyll doesn't like them either. Sure, we don't KNOW that for certain, but I think a Cersei-Euron-Alliance (Cerson? Eursei?) would deter other powers from joining Cersei until they actually show some successes.disinherited? by whom?

but yeah, with cersei as queen all  rules go out the window so theres that.Someone else pointed that out, too. I had forgotten about that.Ah ok, I had completely forgotten about that. Thanks, I need to re-watch season 6 obviously.What point will the nights watch have "after" if we assume the nights king will be defeated and the wildlings are already south of the wall? Hell, there might not even be a wall "after".Can't help but feel bad for the guy who plays the arch maester. One more roll where he gets asked about books in the restricted section and he'll be typecast.I know this is controversial... but this show has gone off the rails. I know people cut it a lot of slack because the first seasons/books were beloved, but there is so much wrong now. 

They're taking so many liberties, so many illogical things keep happening. Characters beaming around on the map (Varys?). The whole Arya plot line was completely pointless, the end didn't make any sense. Ser Davos finds Shireen's statue, even though the probability for that would've been almost zero. Just like Jorah who finds Dany's ring. Euron is a poor man's mix of "Johnny Depp in Pirates of the Caribbean" and "Middle Aged drugged up leader of an English punk band" with a heavy dose of Mary Sue. Or how did the ironborn build a fleet in a few weeks on an island without trees?

I also miss the brilliant dialogue, especially from season one and two. I don't need Tyrion making awkward conversation with two slaves. And the never ending poop montage of Sam was just another point that showed how the general level of the show has dropped. I love poop jokes, but that was way too long. Also, Ed Sheeran doesn't deserve any of the insane hate he's getting. But I didn't need his scene either. Or Sansa making witty remarks about Petyr's witty remarks. No thanks, what a pointless scene that didn't do anything to enhance the plot. The show has become aware of itself, but this isn't a sitcom that plays in New York or anything where that would be appropriate. 

Ed Sheeran didn't throw off my immersion. The whole episode didn't allow for any immersion. Finally, this has motivated me to read the books. The first season was so good that reading the book felt like commentary on the series. But now I know that the books must be better.

I still love the Game of Thrones universe. But I wish the books would've been finished before they started the series. I wonder how it would have turned out. Clearly, there was a drop in quality as soon as they couldn't rely on the books anymore.

Sam & Mormont ..I think Mormont will be cured by the dragon glass. He will bridge the gap between jon and dany . They will probably mine it after that !!I loved this entire episode, but watching Daenerys stride through Dragonstone was amazing. God damn does she look regal and badass.I think the episode overall was solid, but did anyone else feel like the show is spelling things out *way* too heavily? Maybe I'm biased because I just rewatched Better Call Saul and that show *lives* the motto "Show, don't tell", but... I don't know. It's just such a huge contrast.

GoT, particularly in this episode, wants to tell you *everything* via dialogue. Let some room for people to figure stuff out for themselves damnit!

Worst offender was probably the Ed Sheeran scene. "Hey, we're Lannisters! But we're actually good people! Here, let me do something really nice to you, and also tell you how my mum always told me how nice it is to do nice things to strangers. Aren't I nice? Oh, and have I told you already that I'm a Lannister, but *still* not a bad person? I have a family! And I'm really nice! Even though I'm a Lannister! Some of us are just foot soldiers, we don't care about the goings-on of the royalty! Have I told you how nice I am yet?"

Jon and Sansa was pretty bad with this too. Jon had to mention "Don't undermine me" like three times, and Sansa repeated "Don't make stupid mistakes" a dozen times. Why?I liked the episode, but some of the visuals, particularly some shitty sailboats going quite fast in flat seas annoyed me.
In the books many sea crossing lead to lost boats, storms and rough seas, armadas being separated, etc.
I know it cuts time to cut the details, but the odd Dothraki puking overboard would have been good; more waves in the sea too; distance between ships; other stuff like that. Or people rowing to make the boats keep up? Victarion, Sam and Tyrion all had tough sea journeys in the books.Is no one gonna talk about how annoying it is that King's Landing still has the Baratheon sigil on it, even though it is now truly owned by the Lannisters?So, who were those guys allied with that Arya met? Were they Lannister foot soldiers? Who's running Mereen?I'm a little confused why Cersi and Jamie don't know who killed all the Freys. Arya made it a point to say "Winter came for the Freys." It seems obvious a Stark is responsible. Seems they might've even guessed since they know Arya was never captured.I think one of the dragons is going to take off its mask halfway through a main battle and it'll turn out to have been Arya the whole time.I'm curious what Littlefinger's take on the Walkers is. I'm having a hard time believing that anyone in Winterfell or more north would not understand they are real and they are coming. When the Maesters say the wall will hold, don't worry, they are far enough south to go into denial. I think of Littlefinger as a person who wins by accepting the reality of situations before anyone else, the idea being that he learned his lesson when he dueled Brandon Stark. We know that he believes chaos is a ladder, but if he was really planning to leverage the chaos, wouldn't his plan be to get as far from Westeros as possible and ride it out? I think the fact that he is ethnically Bravosi and probably keeps a house there due to his former position of Master of Coin might be ultimately very ironic. If he really wanted Westeros, and to climb chaos as a ladder, the first step would be to hide in Essos until the cards get redealt.

I guess it boils down to:

A) Littlefinger does not believe in the Walkers and is disregarding the eyewitness testimony of like 400 people.

B) Littlefinger believes in the Walkers, but has such absolute faith that the Wall will hold that he isn't even factoring them crossing into his plans.

C) Littlefinger believes in the Walkers, but is so emboldened by all of his previous plans working so well that he has stopped calculating risk and is now playing himself. He used to win by [Xanatos Gambit](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Main/XanatosGambit). Perhaps now he is confusing *setting yourself up to win no matter what* with *always winning*?My predictions about the season after 1st episode:
-Sam tells Jon about Dragonstone/Dragonglass, John goes to meet Dany, tries to convince her to fight at Eastwatch, she declines, wants to take KL instead.  Tyrion goes north with Jon.
-While Jon is gone, Littlefinger uses Sansa to gain power in the North, tries to marry her, but then here comes Tyrion. Little Finger leaves for KL, and makes House Arryn their allies to defend against Danny.
-nothing interesting or noteworthy happens in Dorne
-Jorah and Sam team up, turns out the Valarian Steel of Hearthsbane cures greyscale.  Who would have thought?  They tell Danny that the real war is in the North, she listens to her old bear, but not before Euron steals one of her dragons and kills another.  Now Dragon Riding Euron attempts to seduce Cercei by burning down Kings Landing with mixed results.
-Now Little Finger understands the imminent danger that Kings Landing is in and decides to leave.  He recognizes Arya, kidnaps her and brings her North to Eastwatch where everyone else in the story is going.
-Milesandre is wandering south when she runs into the Brotherhood without Borders.  She convinces herself that the Hound is chosen by Rhollet to be Azor Ahai.  They all travel to Eastwatch.  
So Jon, Tyrion, LF, The Hound, Milisandre, Arya, Bran, Meera, Gendry, Brianne, Pod, Tormond, Varys, the Brotherhood, D. Edd, Davos are at the wall, things happen, they are defeated. By the walkers some retreat for winter fell, some are rescued by Danny who is too late for the battle, but Drogon is enough to hold the zombies off for the retreat.  And that is the end of the season.
Anyone else think that those keys were left out "accidentally" on purpose for Sam?Interesting idea I heard on a podcast I don't remember which. What if the valonqar prophecy is fulfilled... but not as black and white. What if Arya kills Cersei while wearing Jamie's face. I feel like that would be such a unique way of killing her and fulfilling a prophecy, though I do think the emotional impact would not be as powerful. The Citadel. Worst work-study job ever.Cannot stress enough how much I've enjoyed everything the Hound has done since returning last season, his axe murder rampage, his exchanges with Beric & Thoros, His abuse of the word 'Cunt' in hilarious one liners/Insults. A Character that's been developed brilliantly as of late.did anyone notice that the white walkers going around the wall via the sea is quite close to the Patchface poem about the dead 'under the sea' in the books?

> "Patchface jumped up. "I will lead it!" His bells rang merrily. "We will march into the sea and out again. Under the waves we will ride seahorses, and mermaids will blow seashells to announce our coming, oh, oh, oh."Cersei really missed an opportunity here. They knew Daenerys was going to go to Dragonstone. Really should have left an assassin on the island to try to take her out as she kept entering dangerous areas without doing any sort of safety check beforehand. One dude hiding in Dragonstone with a bow/crossbow could have put an end to the Dragon Queen. Although you'd need a pretty suicidal assassin to take the mission...Am I the only person pissed that Sam's just going to find all these knowledge bombs in a fucking library in books he immediately picks up? You know, these super important pieces of information somehow went unnoticed by everyone this whole time? Really? And that foreshadowing with Jorah was so heavy handed. I bet Sam magically cures Jorah, too, when not even the best maesters could cure Shireen fully. It all feels so contrived. 

And Sansa is a bitch. Other than those things, solid enough episode. There was a shot of Cersei's queens guard with helmets on. An ideas who will be on this other than Ser Robert Strong/Mountain?I know lotsa folks be griping re change of tone of the show I have to say it is rare that I appreciate a show going past season 3. even shows I absolutely love. the ones that do, and do it well, shift noticeably in tone and pace and are often incapable of not becoming self-reflexive and start addressing their audience more directly (especially shows with the critical and viewer caliber of GoT). a great long running series is one that can do these things and still remain true to its essence/brand/vision/et al(think seinfeld, sopranos, mad men as some of my faves) i implore all who are feeling betrayed or lost or just generally annoyed by cameos cuz u dont like the pop star and montages cuz, well its just fucking really outta place. these little jabs i think may prove to be placed to relieve some tension, as the show often does, and likely implies its going to get reeeeal T E N S E cuz, you know, the world is coming to an end and all that. i hope people can see past these trivial things and separate between the modes of production and the strength of the writing. i think it would be hard to argue that has diminished 
stay warm fellow fans
for the night is dark...Theory: Hound burried the folks because he got afraid of what he saw in the fire. 
He precautiously buries and sends them off in hope they won't raise from the dead. What you think?Can someone explain to me how the Greyjoy fleet moved through Blackwater Bay without sailing by the massive Targaryen fleet and how they presume to be able to sail through again uncontested? No matter how you cut it, they have to pass by Dragonstone...Tarly going full trainspotting was mintA thought about Frey inheritance:

So now that the Frey's seem a bit short on natural sons, would this not mean that Edmure Tully now is, not only the 'true' Lord of Riverrun, he in now *again* the rightful heir to Riverrun (and the Twins) via his marriage to Roslin Frey.  It seems like this guy just fails upwards.

I doubt they will address this in the show, but its an interesting thought.

Also it now sorta means that the Blackfish's sacrifice was relatively meaningless.Why didn't they mention who gets Dreadfort now since the Boltons are all dead. 1st post here, sorry if I'm doing anything wrong. Just re-watched the premiere for a third time, and caught something that has me (I think?) irrationally mad.
When Sam is speaking to the Citadel's Archmaester, the Archmaester tells him the "the Wall has withstood it all" when going over times in history when the commonfolk thought "it was all over"; Robert's Rebellion, Aegon's Conquest, and the Long Night. According the A World of Ice and Fire, however, the Wall wasn't built until after the Long Night, by Bran the Builder. Are D&D really F*ng that bad without source material to draw from, or did I just have too much to drink tonight?Could someone explain to me how the Greyjoy fleet and Targaryen fleet wpuld not see each other given the distance from KL to DragonStone isnt that far away?Do y'all think Euron is gonna be a stand-in for Aurane Waters?Why wouldn't Jon just betroth Lyanna to Ned and loyal supporter x to Karstark?  This way he rewards his supporters while not kicking the kids out of their ancestral homeWas that Jorah in the Citadel? Is Sam going to cure him?When The Hound mentions the Mountain--
me on the outside: ah that's clever
me on the inside: what is hype may never die https://youtu.be/0ypRt_6kHN0I like these episode posts about how "Bran screwed the world over by going south of the wall" as if it was impossible for the Night King to understand where the billion million mile long and high wall is and what is on the other side.Somebody please explain to me what/who that was with Sam? Are those prison cells? Who is the person with the long fingernails sticking his hand through the door?So...I'm still a little confused about Dragonstone geography. When Dany sees it it looks really small, like barely big enough for the castle, but then Sam shows a map of a fairly big island with two sets of mountains/volcanoes. I'm late to the party, but nobody has mentioned something that really bugged me. 


Jamie broke his oath and killed the king because he was going to use wildfire to kill innocents.


 Cercei did it, directly leading to his sons suicide and he apparently could give less of a fuck? Makes no sense  Go Dany, burn them all!Too little of Davos. Just a couple of reaction shots during the big Northern/Vale/Wildling lords and ladies discussion. 

They should have just had the Freytricide and Dany's homecoming bookend 40 minutes of Davos whittling. Did anyone else notice the short preview scene where it seems to be a woman kissing Sansa? Maybe ellaria? So... where's Edmure? Did Arya just leave him in the dungeons at the Twins? 

If Edmure can get free and sack up, he could retake the Riverlands and wield some power again. So, you're telling me, that Euron sailed to King's Landing, past the empty castle of Dragonstone, which he didn't take, was actually LET IN by Cersei, who then effectively bitch slapped him, and he DIDN'T sack the city in retaliation? He just sailed away, past the defenseless Dragonstone again, despite having his whole massive fleet IN King's Landing?

Oh, and don't even get me started on how fucking impossibly difficult it would be for Arya to get back ALL of the Freys, or even manage the castle, or how there are no Freys below the age of 25, or how NOBODY remembered the Dragonglass.

*sigh* It's times like these that I question the mental health of anyone who thinks the books will be exactly the same as the show.I was expecting the lion sigil on Kings Landing in the intro, but it was still a stag. I guess it's because Baratheon is still technically the royal family (even though Qyburn announced Cersei as "of house Lannister")


Do you think we will ever see he lion on King's Landing?

People keep talking about the hound seeing a mountain shaped like an arrowhead as being cleganebowl hype. My takeaway was the mountain of dragon glass.Suspicious about Euron's actual plans. He states his goal is to marry the most beautiful woman in the world, which Cersei assumes to be referring to herself. However, book Euron also plans to marry the most beautiful woman in the world, but he's after Daenerys. Overthinking it?I was positively surprised Alys Karstark although she obviously wont be a major character by any means. I was wondering when Jon was talking about keeping them in control of their castles who would been in control of said castles as I thought the houses were wiped outWhy did the Nightwatch ask Meera and Bran if they were wildlings? 

They let all the Wildlings through that didn't die at hardhome, right? So why does it matter. How did Arya know Talisa was pregnant she just told robb right before they get murdered and in a very quiet conversation.Ed Sheeran is gonna ba recurring character just for the salt it will bring.

So a completely empty castle? Not even a small contingent? A caretaker? A beligerent cat? 

I hope Dany gets a rude awakening soon because everywhere she's been so far she's just had to turn up and move into the throne room.Does Jon know about Rickon? Because hoo-boy I wouldn't be half as forgiving if I were him.

Edit: I meant does Jon know how Ramsay got hold of Rickon.  Shoulda been clearer.What in the fuck was Euron wearing? Completely took me out of the scene. Varys was the only one not wearing black when they arrive at Dragonstone. I saw this as a symbol to show he doesn't bend the knee to any king or queen. he just serves himself and the realm,  but we don't know his endgame yet.They missed a good chance to have Jon use Tywin's line: *Sansa. When your enemies defy you, you must serve them fire and steel. When they go to their knees, however, help them to their feet. Otherwise, no man will bend the knee to you.*So isn't the wall supposed to lose it's magic now that Bran is there? I'm probably mixing the theories. Can someone help me here?I don't know, but based on Clarke's facial expressions last night, it really made me gave some credence to the idea that Dany is going to go mad. She seemed bloodthirsty.

Jon is still as Ned Stark as ever, though, which is great.I thought this was one of the better season openers IMO. Part of this is the condensing of the storylines. They were able to tap into most of the major players in one episode. 

The opening scene was so immensely satisfying. I am actually really loving all the stuff they did with Arya in this episode. It was easily some of her best stuff since season 4. I will almost say that that opening scene was worth waiting through 2 seasons of kinda bullshit (I don't like her training arc in the book either). 

The scene with the Houd and tBowB was really good. Sandor showing regret over his past actions, and realizing the scope of his destiny was cool. I also like the nod to him being a grave digger. That was cool.

The Sam scene I actually liked because it did feel different. It was gross and whatnot but it was better than having seen him train and learn bullshit for a few months. Also people need to remember that Maestors are  the closest thing that Westeros has to doctors so it makes sense to me that Sam would be doing essentially year one nursing duties. I feel like some people thought it was overly gross but to me it actually was kind of this interesting world building moment. Yeah we get to see the grosser side of how these people live. We also get a look at what goes into Maester training. 

I'll also say that I was genuinely a fan of the directing in this episode. The long wordless segments (the white walker scene, Sam's montage, and Dany are Dragstone) felt like an interesting choice in in those scenes were effective. The white walker scene did create genuine dread, the scene with Sam laid into the tedium of his work, and Dany's scene had this meditative quality to it that you would want to see for her arrival like that. I was glad it wasn't filled with a lot of exposition like it could have been, just tell the story through the visuals. Show her feeling the weight of returning home, remind the audience Stannis once was here, establish this was once and now again the lair of Dragon Lords. 

I like Jon forgiving the Karstarks and Umbers. That scene was actually pretty touching. Lyanna Mormont was the boss bitch as always, love her.  I really liked Jon saying that the women and girls have to be trained as well. I thought it was a great character decision. He *knows* exactly how capable women can be from his time with Ygrette, also from knowing Arya. It's consistent with him giving Needle to her, he knew she was capable of learning to defend herself. 

I will say I hate that the show (and the books) have made me so nervous about rape whenever a woman is among soldiers in the woods. But I enjoyed that scene. It was good to see that there are good people in the world even in Lannister colors, and I was happy to see Arya is still capable of recognizing that as well.

It wasn't a wiz bang pow exciting episode but it did a lot of great stuff to set up the season and I think it used its time very well for some very genuine character moments. I think people might appreciate this episode for being a little slower and spending time on character development later in the season when there won't be any time for that. So Cersei is a troll and Euron is a gay punk rock singer. Noted.

*Cersei:* I invited Euron here. We need his help. He needs a queen.

*Euron:* Hi, I'm here to help.

*Cersei:* Not interested.

Also that Edd and Bran conversation made no sense.

*Edd:* How do I know you're Brandon Stark and not another wildling.

*Brandon:* I saw White Walkers.

*Edd:* That doesn't answer my question at all... oh well come on in

So anyone else notice the massive red eye on the Silence?

Are we going to get Euron Crows-Eye? Is he rusing the fuck out of us with this idiot pirate shit?Is Arya actually going to Kings Landing to kill Cersei? I was hoping she'd go North, but she probably doesn't know that her family is there. I guess it makes sense for her to keep killing people on her list. Things happened in this episode, but it felt like nothing happened. Sure Arya killed the entire Frey family, but they are the Frey's and they suck. Really her revenge on Walder seemed enough in the last season. Sansa and Jon bicker... The Hound can read the flames, for some reason. Although, he was the best part of the episode. Then there is Sam, stuck with Gilly at the citadel cleaning up poo. Oh, but he reminded us that Dragonstone had dragon glass. Awesome... Dany makes it to Drangonstone and walks a long ways. Cersei and Jaime are barely worth typing about.If Sansa really wants to give a castle to some un-castled loyal supporter... how about The Dreadfort? Clearly there are no Boltons there, otherwise it would've been mentioned that they could expect retribution from The Dreadfort. Only question is - is the castle completely empty, like the way Stannis left Dragonstone, or is it being kept up by a small group of commoners or a minor lord?How in seven hells hasn't Cersei's hair grown out longer? Or did she intentionally keep it that length?For soldiers who don't get ravens, Ed Sheeran and his mates are awfully well informed about recent events.One thing that immediately struck me is that Cersei is so well informed of what's going on across the Narrow Sea. "Our little brother is now Hand of the Queen..." It's not like Cersei has Varys or Jorah anymore to spy on Daenerys...Does Sam even know Jon died? Does he have any idea what Jon has been up to since sending him away? So what is Beric Dondarrion's ultimate role? Seems like he's a minor character but they way they built him up makes me think he has a major role to play. Is he the legend with the fire sword?Reading all these awesome comments and thinking I need to start my first re-read ASAP. So many small details I don't even remember after finishing DoD, what, five years ago now?I thought this episode was okay.

Things I liked:
Dragonstone: the entire scene being without dialogues.
Sansa/Littlefinger: the tension and intrigue between them.
And Euron and Mormont was enjoyable sections.

Things that could have been better: 
I think the cold opening didnt add anything to the plot with only a fixed hours remaining I felt it was unnecessary.Same has to be said about the hound burial scenes and the poop soup. The length of the scenes made me think it was not intelligently shot. 

But at the end of the day I am still hyped about Euron's gift, Sam exploring, Sansa/Jon tensions and Jaime/Cersei relationship.
The Hound scenes were great but they turned the brightness down so much I could barely see anything on my TV.

In the D&D highlights after the show, they must have used the pre-edited cuts because they were so much clearer.At first when Jorah stuck his nasty arm out I thought they were introducing the show's version of Victarion with the burnt up arm So they adapted "Hands of Gold" in order to have something to play when Jaime gets volanquarin', right?When the hound is talking to Berric he references three deaths of good men 
I can't remember the first one but it is something specific ( I think ned getting his head chopped off)
"Hung from the rafters" (Ian McShane) 
and
"Shitting yourself to death in a field" 
"and none of them came back to life so why should you"

The last one is how the hound dies. 
Does he consider himself dead. 
Is he even the Hound anymore?Sansa's hair is identical to early-season Cersei's.Having a nice bowl of chili while watching this episode was a mistake. I dont remember last season, is Edd the Lord Commander of the Night's Watch now?god, some of those show plotlines are just so contrived and pointless.

Samwell Tarly: Stannis told me there's DRAGONglass on DRAGONstone, but I thought that was BS, so I travelled all the way to the Citadel and oh wait he was right the whole time, oops

TWOW pls George[LEGENDS OF THE LONG NIGHT](http://imgur.com/a/xuJqF)       
    

|


>*As the First Men*   
*Established their*   
*realms followin*  
*g their Pact,*   
*little troubled t*   
*hem save their*   
*own feuds and*   
*wars, or so the histories tell us,*   
*It is also from these histories th*   
*at we learn of the Long Night,*   
*when a season of winter cam*   
*e that lasted a generation-a*   
*generation in which children*  
*were born, grew into adulthood*      
       

|


>*and in many cases died withou*    
*t ever seeing the spring. Indeed*   
*some of the old wives tales say t*   
*hat they never even beheld the*   
*light of day, so complete was the*  
*winter that fell on the world.*   
*While this fact may well be no*   
*more than fancy, that fact tha*   
*t some cataclysm took place m*   
*any thousands of years ago see*   
*ms certain. Lomas Longstrider*   
*In his Wonders Made by Man*   
*recounts meeting descendants of*   
*the Rhoyanar whose secret song*       
  
--------  
   

|


[THE CATSPAW DAGGER PAGE:](http://i.imgur.com/PjIJKNw.png)  


>*The Valyrians were familiar with dragonless long before the*   
*y came to Westeros. They called it [zīrtys perzys,](https://lingojam.com/EnglishtoValyrianTranslator) which translates*   
*to ”frozenfire” in Valyrian, and*  
*eastern texts tell of how their drag*   
*gons would thaw the stone wi*   
*th dragonflame until it became*  
*molten and maliable.  The*   
*Valyrians then used it to build*  
*their strange monuments and b-*  
*uildings without seams and joint*   
*of our modern castles*   


|


>*When Aegon the Conqueror*   
*forged his Seven Kingdoms, he*   
*and his descendants would often*   
*decorate their blades with dragon*   
*glass, feeling a kinship with the*  
*stone.  The royal fashion for*  
*dragonglass ornamentation soon*  
*spread throughout the Seven*   
*Kingdoms to those wealthy en*   
*-ough to afford it:  Hilts and pommels were and are the most crossg*  
*uard decoration for dragonglass if*   
*too brittle to make a useful crossg*  
*uard. Indeed its very brittleness is*  
*what relegates it to the great houses and the most successful merch*  
*ants.*  


|


OPPOSITE CATSPAW PAGE   

>*...acolyte studies the so-called*   
*...mysteries of the arcane and magical*   
*.. final test is to stand a solitary vig*   
*..locked vault with three dragonglass*   
*...By this time he has learned of the*    
*… legends - that seated before the*   
*..magically-lit candles their sorcerers con*   
*...across mountains, seas, and deserts,*   
*...a man's dreams and give him*   
*...speak to one another half a*  
*...acolyte has no forth and*  
*… he can...*   
*...darkness*      
   
------- 
   
[DRAGONSTONE PAGE](http://i.imgur.com/Cs2baG8.png)    
      
>*Or perhaps geography is to blame. While dragonlass is rare in*      
*mainland Westeros, the island of Dragonstone more than lives up*      
*to its name, housing vast deposits of dragonglass and even the ...*     
*.. of an ancient mine of the First Men. But Essos has no such equi*     
*valent and, as Maester Adren theorized, value derives? from scarcity*    
    

|
    

>*but absence results in the worthlessness. True, legend has it that Valyria*     
*took as much dragonglass as gold from the mines beneath their Four*     
*teen Flames, but the Doom buried all evidence beneath the Smoke-*    
*ing Sea or burned it along with the dragons and very skies on that*     
   
OPPOSITE DRAGONSTONE PAGE   
     
>*..dragonglass, the fashion*   
*… to Westeros.*   
*...may use dragon*   
*… of the stone, which*   
*... and some of the*   
*... earrings adorned with*   
*... Valyrian princes and*   
*... But for the most part dr-*   
*... too difficult for build-*   
*... of the ostentatious kind pre*    


|


>*...dragonglass are the*  
*.. consider the  stone sacred thoug*     
*… history or because of some arcane*    
*...whatever the case, in the eastern …*    
*...candles and amulets along with*    
*...are even tales of the less sav*     
*…mastered dragonglass as a cure for*    
*...in his great work on illnesses and dise*     
*.. little harm incurs from the ingestion*     
*… not discount the harm to the gullible*     
*...better spent on practical treatments*    
*… this association with the*    
*...which explains the low*    
*… have purchased*   
*… sadly*   

-----     
  

[DRAGONGLASS PAGE:](http://i.imgur.com/X8sJaEk.png)  
      
>*..range.  More damning*   
*for the Children, thought*   
*..was that even when the*   
*ir weapons found the w*   
*eak joints in the armour*   
*or penetrated it outright,*   
*there were always more*    
*men waiting. In the great*   
*war that followed many*    
*of the Children perished*   
*until The Pact that br-*   
*ought peace to the two*   


|


>*...disputed note a resurgence of dragonglass dur-*   
*...we do not know anymore.*   
*…..bronze couldn't bear*   
*...brittle as twigs, and*   
*...ever the case, the*   
*...the Long Night,*   
*...dragonglass*    
  Sandor looking into the fire for 30 seconds and describing episode 6 or whatever from this season feels like lazy foreshadowing.Question: Bran was touched/scared by the Nights King on the hand. Does that mean that as soon as he entered the Wall that the Magic preventing the Wights and White Walkers from entering is destroyed? I mean that's what happened when he was touched by the king while spying on the undead army in S6 Ep5 The Door. They crossed through the Weirwood tree protective shield. I was thinking the wall would come down from the Horn of Winter seeing as that is the cover of the Winds of Winter.I'm gonna say something I haven't seen anyone else say... Maisie has put on weight. Like she's obvs not far and I'm not body shaming or any of that shit. But her face is noticeably chubbier. Sandor tells Beric he isn't special. Looks into the fire for 10 seconds, better at seeing the future than Beric could ever hope to be. 

LOLI feel like this episode was a little bit slow in comparison to the season 6 finale, but that isn’t necessarily a bad thing. It was very quiet, but in the sense that it’s the calm before the inevitable storm.How about Tormund making a crack about the wildlings being the new night's watch? That's a huge shift in the storyline considering they have been against each other for thousands of years.Anyone else feel like it was a nod towards Reddit when Sandor called Thoros out on the top-knot disguising his baldness?

I never saw anything about that anywhere except on this site. Anyone else having trouble seeing where Sansa's story is going? 

Ramsey is gone, Winterfell is Jon's so she's just kind of tagging along for the ride. Some drama with Baelish. Her staying on as some kind of advisory role doesn't really appeal to me considering her performance this episode. I'm thinking Jon should just marry her off to Baelish for a promise of his support or something.Arya scene was awesome but now that she's so bad ass I'm pretty certain she's gonna die somehow at the end of season I'm getting the vibe that Littlefinger and Sansa are going to get married2 things pissed me off about this episode:

1. Why the hell doesn't the Archmaester want to help defeat the White Walkers? He gave that whole speech about how despite every calamity to strike Westeros the wall was still standing and life has gone on. Ok fair point. But why does that mean they can't just send a raven to Castle Black saying "Hey guys just so you know Dragonglass kills White Walkers and oh btw there's a huge cache of it hidden north of the Wall". It's like they've discovered the cure to some awful disease but keep it secret rather than sharing it with the world because "there have always been diseases and so far they haven't literally wiped out the human race so nbd". I'm hoping this is part of some bigger plot by the Maesters because if not it's really poor writing.

2. Why did Cersei leave Dragonstone completely unoccupied? Has it really just sat there empty since Stannis left 2-3 seasons ago? I understand she doesn't have a very strong army but it seems like a no brainer for her to at least grant the castle to one of the houses that had been loyal to her to get somebody in there. The defenders may not have stood much of a chance against Dany and her dragons but at least it would have prevented her from just waltzing into a (strategically crucial) unoccupied castle. So, where exactly is the Iron Fleet right now? 

We saw them in the harbor at King's Landing, but Dany's fleet and army is at Dragonstone - which sits right at the opening of the bay to the sea. If the Ironborn are going to do anything, they have to get past Dany. Maybe we're already set up for the great sea battle that will resolve Euron's plot, but it seems a little bit early for that. 

http://viewers-guide.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/season-4/episode-10/map/location/18/dragonstone

Granted, I don't have a great sense of scale - maybe Euron can escape undetected - but the fleet seems to be in a very bad position here. Meanwhile, it seems like she can blockade the city, and cut off any trade by sea.Really liked the scene with Lannister men. The scene shows how wars and battles change people and make them do terrible things. Right now it's a relatively peaceful time, men just want to sit around a fire, drink, eat, sing, and think about home and family. Soon it will all go to shit again.Top-notch acting from Nikolaj Coster-Waldau. He didn't say much during his scene with Cersei but his body language and facial reactions conveyed A LOT. I enjoyed this episode overall because it's one of the better first episode of a season that we've had. 

This is tinfoil but, I wonder if we're gonna have a twist on the valonquar prophecy wherein Cersei kills Jaime, and it leads to her madness and ultimate demise. Like that could still be a case for a valonquar being the cause of her death. For the record, Sansa wasn't comparing Jon and Joffrey, she was just reminding him of a bad characteristic of a bad king to show a point to Jon.I'm pretty sure that the lannister soldiers are going to get killed by nymeria's wolf packI guessed the opening scene Arya and the wine! *Before episode*

Dragonstone has obsidian. Duh.

*After episode.*

Dragonstone has obsidian. SEVEN HELLS.I am MUCH happier with the quality of the writing so far compared to the last two seasons. I feel like D&D knowingly tried to address some of the issues people have been critical of for the past two seasons, and this is the result. 

I observed much more naturalistic and "common sense" dialogue between the characters instead of a tendency for characters to ignore obvious questions or inconsistencies in the past. 

Little things like Jaime addressing Tommen's death were much appreciated and helped add depth to scenes that were beginning to feel like breakneck plot progression in the previous seasons. Even the fluff scene of Sam's daily monotony at the citadel served to establish the passage of time, something I felt they completely abandoned for the past two seasons (where the show started out strong in this regard). 

I enjoyed the episode overall, I still have issues with some contrivances in their writing, but I really think this episode was a step in the right direction for the writing of the show and begins the season on a good note. It really felt like a couple of the scenes included knowing winks from D&D that they're doing their best to address common criticisms. I haven't seen anyone else bring this up, but I'm curious why Arya is going straight for Kings Landing and not to Winterfell where her brother and sister are. Is the implication that her vengeance is the most important thing and nothing else matters or does she simply not know Jon and Sansa are together at Winterfell? A pack of wolves is always more dangerous than a lone wolf...The Frey massacre was over the top and a cop out, imo, go get rid of houses they don't need anymore. Ayra's other scene with Ed Sheeren was pointless too. 

Cersei and Jaime was recapping everything, and Euron was meh. 

The rest of the show was on point.... Except that Winterfell CGI... What was that about? But what is going to happen to Dreadfort? Considering how impregnable the castle seems to be and how crucial it could be for the salvation of people, shouldn't they address this, too?I'm shocked I haven't seen anything about Euron's gift being the dragon horn.I think we should really be thankful that Bran crossing the Wall did not break it.DidAE see the Wight'd Giants and think back to Joramun's Horn that would "wake giants from the Earth?"

Does the Night King have the Horn of Winter?

Does Euron have Dragonbinder? IS A SONG OF ICE AND FIRE ACTUALLY TWO FRAKKIN' HORNS??!It's funny that they discussed Karhold and Last Hearth but didn't discuss what to do with Dreadfort.  [deleted]Did anyone else notice the valyrian dagger in Sam's book? It was the dagger used in the Bran murder attempt. The knife that started it all.Cersei's statement that Tommen betrayed her has massive implications and I hope they give the evolution of her viewpoint lots of room to grow and be examined both dialogue and plot-wise. I'll be disappointed if its more of a one-note "and now she's even crazier!" rather than an examination of what motivates her now that she has no heirs and her children are all dead. I think Lena Headey could make great work out of that as long as she's given enough material to do soIf the only things people have problems with of the episode are nitpicks and "Ed Sheeran muh inmersion!#@&!!" Then you know it's a good episodeI swear some of the wardrobe looked like it was straight out of matrix reloaded.  What was missandei wearing?why was Euron Greyjoy, the next big villain, dressed like a rockstar singer?Ed Sheeran totally broke my immersion in the story...

I mean, I don't actually know who Ed Sheeran is. But among all of my live-tweet feeds on my phone, the r/asoiaf episode thread I had open on the laptop, and a couple of chat tabs with friends who were watching, it's all I was hearing about.

Yep, my immersion was ruined.good episode but one thing that bothered me, was there really no one guarding dragonstone after stannis's defeat? You'd think a place like that place wouldn't be left vacant for so long.Continuing on how amazing Jaimie's story arc has been I have think if he makes it far enough in the story (I.e. Not get murdered by someone for what he was) he'll have a pivotal military role in defending the kingdom from the white walkers. Or even better if he takes a stupid/paranoid order from Cersei to attack some kingdom with an army and instead diverts them to aid Jon and Dany.very poor ep.I just realized, nearly 15 hours after watching the episode, that Euron's "2 good hands" line was a crack at Jaime, and not some sexual innuendo I didn't understand. I am an idiot. Does anyone think the Horn of Joramun or the Dragonbinder make an appearance this season? Emphasis on the lack of a maester's worry since the night's king can't pass the wall and Euron's "gift" was made.Dope episode and all but goddamn does Ed Sheeran look awkward in Lannister armor lmao.Bran is at Castle Black, meaning he is capable of sending a raven telling Jon who his mother and father are. 

I dont think they would go that route, but we know this has to happen so he is either going to head to winterfell or Jon will go back north (probably to East Watch). 

Still an exciting prospect.My takeaways from the episode, and thoughts/feelings from other's comments.

1. people seem to be upset about the ease of Arya killings and her ability to disguise. i like it for a couple reasons, she has been through hell and completely earned it (i mean this is what we have been waiting for...) and i also like it as now we can never be as sure about certain characters as they could just be Arya!

2. im ready for Jaime to get his balls back. i believe he will soon, he is really getting tired of Cersei's shit. she loved him bc of his power, but now he is nearly as "powerful" without his right hand. i also think Arya meeting the "good" of the Lannister army soldiers is foreshadowing her finding the good in Jaime, which will bring them together as allies at some point. hated ed sheeran being in the episode tho...

3. euron is definitely going for the dragon horn, it is Cersei's only hope to defend against Dany. people say his outfit was bad or too modern, but it is just a leather outfit, not out of place, and he wants to look his best when courting the queen of the seven kingdoms...

4. jon and sansa teaching each other how to lead. they both had strengthes and weaknesses which are complementing each other well. reminds me of ned and cat so much. jon is purely focused on whitewalkers now, but sansa still reminds him that politics are still v much at play

5. really enjoying berric and thoros. i like how they deal with clegane, instead of pushing him, they understand he needs to figure out his role on his own. i think they have been secretly following him, and stopping at that house was no coincidence. 

6. samwell wtf you are just now talking about stannis telling you of dragonglass... but i guess it would be near impossible for jon to get there until now, and im sure samwell could not put his faith into stannis mentioning it, reading it now gives him full faith stannis was correct.

good setup episode, they always kinda suck. v hyped with what is to comeProps to Meera for literally dragging Bran all the way to the wall. Jesus.There were at least two explicit references to the Wall protecting the 7 Kingdoms (Sansa and Maester Slughorn). I mean I almost thought the Wall was gonna fall before the episode was over. I like that they are foreshadowing it, but it seems a little too heavy-handed at the moment.Really loved the episode. One thing though - the Arya campfire scene seemed really strange to me. Here is a dark-haired teenage girl, armed with a sword, riding a horse through the deserted riverlands, dressed in men's clothes - but none of the soldiers display any obvious surprise. They just treat her like a bro. Westeros usually has very strict gender roles, women like Brienne or Yara being exceptions that stand out. It would have made more sense if Arya were wearing a face, pretending to be a man, I think. Incoming complaints, nothing to see here.

The scene at the Twins would have had significantly more impact if we hadn't already seen Arya kill Walter last season. You pretty much know what's going to happen right as the scene starts and it removes any possible tension or surprise.

The Arya + Lannister Soldiers scene wasn't as horrible as I initially though it was, though it also felt unnecessary. I groaned when I saw Ed Shereen, mainly because I dislike super obvious cameoes. I swear he almost smiled and nodded to the camera.

Cersei speech to Jaimie was offputting. Her main drive has always been her kids. I feel like they killed off Tommen to early, because now she just seems more aimless than anything else, which isn't entertaining. Jaimie's continued pitfall of a Character arc regarding Cersei is disheartening. He just seems to be along for the ride at this point.

Poop montage, followed by a "Oh, I forgot about that giant supply of Obsidian we learned about 2 seasons ago, better tell Jon" revelation? What???

Hound + BwB was solid enough. Love the actors and characters so I can forgive the slightly awkward dialogue.

Winterfell was OK. Can't really complain about anything specific other than I want things to start moving again.

Not a fan of show Euron, but the scene with him was fine. Not a fan of the super villain team they got going on though. Even despite how despicable the Lannisters often were, they at least used to have a driving force that wasn't "Let's be evil together."

Daenerys scene was well done, Dragonstone was beautiful, but 2 complaints: why was the castle abandoned, and Jesus tap dancing Christ Emelia can you please show some emotion for once? This stoic face she has going in EVERY SCENE is awful. I don't think she's a horrible actor, at least, there are worse actors in the show, but her acting has been horribly dull since she hit Mereen (just like the books HEY-OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO)

I feel like a few small dialogue changes would have made it a really solid season opener. It's weird, it just feels like this was a "first take" without any script rewrites.
Seemed very out of character to me for Arya to think it was a good idea to stop and hang out with some Lannister soldiers based on her previous experiences.

I see why the show would try to cram it in there, but it just didn't make much sense to me.I just like the fact we went through the eye of a blue eyed giant.I hope that Arya takes to Jon's lesson to an extent. Ed Sheerhan's group looks to be decent people. 

Also, did that Lannister soldier who made the wine remind anyone of Hot Pie? Or was it just me?they're telling a story i can't seem to dig. frey vengeance was exhausted in a prologue. in a prologue. i'm sorry. the actors are great, the directing, the cg, the dialogues, it's a great series.. but the content, i just don't feel it. and again, i'm sorry, but it's mostly on gurm.Who else is super disappointed with the citadel so far? In the book Sam arrives there with a new unique conflict. It is easily what I am most looking forward to reading about in TWOW. But the show, he cleans shit while looking for Chekhov's gunStill need to rewatch but the decision to have Dany and her pals say nothing as she ascends to Dragonstone was a really wise choice, the moment her hand touches the beach was likely highly emotional for any book reader who has been waiting for her to come home this long... must be crazy if you've been reading since 1996.

Not sure how I feel about the Hound being able to read the fires, I thought only priests and priestesses like Thoros and Melisandre were able to have this gift? Also how the hell has Mel interpreted her fires so poorly and it seems the Hound was able to succeed on his first try. Why wouldn't Jon have Littlefinger & the Knights of the Vale officially bend the knee & declare their loyalty to him? Is it enough that they rode for Winterfell in the battle? I'm not sure what the official customs are. How can he be sure that he can trust Littlefinger? I feel like that was an oversight. Would have been good to see how Dany would treat her family's banner men who became Barrathean loyalist in contrast to how Jon handled the Karstark/Umbee situationI haven't seen anyone mention this but does Clegane seeing things he couldn't possibly know (that we know absolutely to be true) in the flames prove that the Lord of Light is real?  He was a total non believer and not indoctrinated but he still has a 100 percent true vision, no symbolism or imagery just exactly what is happening beyond the wall.  Shadow babies and resurrection made good cases for LoL but I always figured it was just regular magic being attributed to an old god.  The fire thing especially seemed like just a parlor trick, like a medieval Magic Eye or something. Once you're indoctrinated enough you just start "seeing" visions in flames.  But Sandor does not believe, has no idea that there's a zombie army,  and still sees it in the flames.  Does this mean the Lord of Light is real?  Like it's a real god with motivations and a will?  Could any of the other gods be real?I think Tormund will (unfortunately) die pretty early on in this season; 
he got sent to Eastwatch-by-the-Sea, 
and Sandor saw the army of Wights getting past the wall through a castle near the sea.I really liked the contrast between Jon and cersei, though the lyanna mormont part was a bit cringe worthy.

 I actually like that arya's getting stuff done but the ed sheeran scene was messed up.

Also Dany continues to be thoroughly uninteresting unless she's burning shit up.I was really feeling like Thoros was gonna heal Sandor's scars. Like I was really getting that vibe. Visions are cool too though. Interesting how Jon gave the Karstarks and Umbers a chance, while Arya straight up slaughtered all of the Freys.Maybe it's because I binged Mad Men recently, but I never realised how weak the writing actually is. There was so much exposition in this episode, and just because it's the first episode of the new season isn't an excuse. Almost every scene felt like it was explaining things to the audience instead of feeling natural.What was the deal with Jorah grabbing out with his greyscale claw?What is Davos up toWas the Night's King holding a horn in the opening sequence, or was it just a really weird sword?I really can't say why, but this episode felt weird. Almost like if it was empty, maybe it was just me but the places we visited didn't feel alive. Maybe it's just because so many people died, who knows.Nope, nobody.Cersei is ruling under her authority as the widow of Robert Baratheon so it makes sense. By any other rights it ought to have changed when Joffrey became king.They were Ed Sheerans back up singers

But in seriousness, yes, they were LannisterDaario I think he may be blinded by his lust for Sansa. To him, he's closer than he's ever been, and that's been his game his whole life- to take her mom and now her.

That said, I think he believes the threat is coming and will somehow use it to his advantage to take Sansa.>turns out the Valarian Steel of Hearthsbane cures greyscale.

Nah. Dragonglass cures greyscale.That would require Arya to kill Jaime though, which is not impossible, but seems an unlikely way for Jaime to goThe Silent Sisters would like a word. (Not really though, because, y'know... silence)So does his burial of the man and his daughter confirm the grave digger theory in the books?I was waiting for someone or someones to bust out of the corners during that scene. Ah yes, but this is a TV show and if the writers don't want Daenerys to die then she won't. I think the passage of time is made to show Sam has been there for a while, so it could be days, weeks, or even months of him stumbling around books to fall on that gem.> often incapable of not becoming self-reflexive and start addressing their audience more directly

YES. And the unfortunate thing is that most of the time, audiences love and respond to this.He buried the folks because they were the father and daughter that took him and Arya in back in season 3 (I think), he acted like a jerk back then and stolen their money and now, as a changed man. He feels remorse or ashamed of his action.


Iirc, Arya gave him shit for stealing and his response was "they'll be dead come winter", or something along that line.Yeah, I got the impression that part of why he buried them was because he didn't want them to return as white walkers, and that would be his fault.How did they get past Oldtown, The Arbor, or Dorne without some sort of battle?How wide is the mouth of the bay? Dragonstone is at the North end and they would have been coming from the South. If the cape is 10+ miles from the island they can easily miss one another.Time, we don't know how much, but remember, not everything is happening at the same time, between Euron being in King's landing and Daenerys arrival at Dragonstone can be weeks or months apart.the location of the Dreadfort is not of any particular strategic importance either as a defense against the white walkers or against an invasion from the south. - it is between two rivers northeast of winterfell that the others (aka white walkers) won't be likely to travel through at all. - The other two forts that were mentioned were only talked about because they were of strategic importance due to their proximity to a likely approach path of the invasion.That's a good point, that would be a good reward for Jon to give out to shut up Sansa "And thousands of years before that, during the long night, we can forgive them for thinking it truly was the end. But it wasn't. None of it was. The Wall has stood through it all. And every winter that has come has ended."

From the subtitles.Maybe I misunderstood but I heard him saying "the world has withstood it all" I'm just going to assume that Euron reached KL after Dany reached Dragonstone.Now that you mention it, this actually makes a ton of sense.Maybe not Lyanna, but definitely could marry two supporters to these heirs and get the benefit Sansa mentioned. Plus, as mentioned elsewhere, the Dreadfort needs a new lord.Given the usual laws regarding marriage and who gets what, betrothing anyone to Lyanna Mormont is tricky. Yes, obviously she would quickly become the dominant one in the relationship, but because she is a girl, she really needs to marry down to maintain her position. The Umbers are technically at or even a over the Mormonts politically and even with all the betrayals, that could get messy.

Plus, Lyanna would have to agree and I can't see Jon really wanting to broker a marriage between two young children.Yes. Probably. The wall had special magic making it impossible for the others to pass, Bran being branded and passing through the wall effectively cancelling out the magic that was keeping them out.

Had Bran just stayed north of the wall, the white walkers would still be trapped up north.I think their point is that Bran being marked by the NK is what allowed him to pass through the magical barrier of Bloodravens cave. So the same mark, in theory, might be able to let him pass through the magical barrier of The Wall as well, not that he didn't know where it was. The Citadel is a place of healing and science. That area is likely for infected patients who are there looking to be cured or to at least die out in some relative comfort. It's obviously a quarantined ward, with Sam even wearing leather gloves for the food.

It's implied that Jorah is the man in the cell. He likely went to the Citadel in the hope that there was a cure. If he didn't find a cure, he'd at least die in some sort of comfort and unable to infect anyone.Quarantine likely, and its jorah mormont. Apparently it is big enough for there to be a large castle and a town around the bay, at least if I am remember the lore correctly.  Cersei had already done it before Jaime returned; it was too late to stop her. - However I suspect that he is seriously questioning her sanity at this point. I suspect that it's one of the reasons that he will eventually kill her.Jaime didn't love Aerys. Heck, he didn't even like or respect him at that point. He does love Cersei. She's his sister, the mother of his children, the person he's done so much for. He probably still thinks he can help her.The difference is that Jaime was in a position to stop it the first time. He's clearly pissed and taken aback by what cerseis done. She's also his sister, its after the fact, and they're the last two lannisters. He's having an inner conflict right now. 

His last son also died that day. It was Yara and Ellaria making out. Same shot from the s7 trailer. Good question. Why would it be a good idea for Euron to take Dragonstone? Then, he's stuck with fighting Cersei as well as everybody else. If his goal is power, better to ally with the person that is both desperate for allies and someone who has built-in advantages. Everyone knows they are different?Yes I was kind of dissaponted not to see the Lion...The Fist of the First MenI also thought he did not mean Cersei when he said it. That he said it to buy Cersei's interest so he has the upper hand when he choose to betray  her.

I thought that when the conversation between Cersei and Jaime is all about betrayal from all their former allies.hm...just to start a conversation with whoever shows up at the wall?No, at the Red Wedding it was showing, Walder Frey even says something to her along the lines 'I know what you're hiding under that dress'. So people noticed and talked afterwards. Clearly people knew she was pregnant as she even got stabbed in the stomach at the Red Wedding. So, while the viewer was only privy to that conversation, there's enough information shown on screen to where it's safe to assume others were informed.Pretty clean castle too! Barely any dust in the halls or tablesShe finds the jarred fetuses that Selyse kept.Highly unlikely, but again, he said he won't punish the son for the sins of the father I mean, we're used to seeing characters in [jeans and Louis Vuitton shoes](https://typeset-beta.imgix.net/rehost%2F2016%2F9%2F13%2F7c8791ae-a840-4637-9d89-256db36e8174.jpg), so it's nothing new.I agree .  It didn't completely take me out, but that and a bit overkill on the smiling took me out of it.  What was wrong with what he was wearing last season?  Overall I liked the scene though. How would he know what Tywin said? I don't think he ever had the chance to even meet the manWhy would it? In the books it would lose its magic if the Horn of Winter is blown. What would cause it to lose magic in the show?I think this is quite possible, but it hasn't been confirmed.she is clearly heading south; she met the Lanister soldiers in Riverrun south of the Twins where she killed all the frey men and the 'preview' segment at the end of the episode shows a clip of Nymeria from what is likely a scene in the next episode where Arya will reconnect with her Direwolf; - Nymeria is known to be traveling with a large wolfpack in the Riverlands (again; south of the Twins). 

Whether she actually continues south after this meeting or turns around and heads back to Winterfell is unclear at this point but I suspect that when she said she was going to kill Cersei I am pretty sure that it was her actual intent at that point in time.

They set up a bunch of stuff to start happening, put people in the right places and then let the dominoes fall. No different than any other season except intead of 1-3 of those episodes setting stuff up I think we are getting right into it during episode 2That's different, y'see. That's hers.because wigs don't grow...THIS!!! They search around for ways to show passage of time and ignore this obvious potential!!What did they say that they shouldn't know? They talked about the sept blowing up but that one dude said he was there in KL so that's how he knew that. They knew about the Freys because that's why they are there in the first placeOr does sheDoubtfulAfter reading your comment I've came up with a theory. So, I believe that there is a time loop where their world got stuck. The ink is dry e.t.c. Now I think that there are some forces that are trying to alter the timeline so it goes forward. And there is Rhlor that is trying to keep ink dry. I mean that when a character that was not supposed to die dies, he is ressurected in a sole purpose to keep the ink "dry".The montage and those scenes serve a purpose, it might not be action packed but it isn't there to waste minutes.

The cold opening and the subsequent shot with the soldiers shows that Arya with her pure revenge angle is more than a killing machine, she learnt that there are people who is on the opposing side can also be nice - this might lead to some character development and help us further down the show understand the actions a bit clearer.

Sam's montage is really to show the passage of time, it clarifies the viewers internal timeline, so to see the daily "rituals" where Sam cleans, feeds, and put books back day after day. The viewer is able to get the understanding that he's been there for a while, since the last time we saw Sam, he just got there.

The burial scene shows the change in the hound, the people he buried was the same one that took him and Arya back in season 3 or 4, they were the father and daughter that essentially saved the hound by nursing him back to health. Back then. He was an ass, so when he was healthier. He stole all their money and left with Arya. Now that he's back at their farm, he feels resentment and a sort of shame now that they died. This is a big character change we see in the hound from the time we first met him in season 1 to now.

The scenes may be lengthy and boring. But there is deeper meaning to them, don't easily dismiss them as being shot unintelligently.

Edit: wordsWasting time on the hound and Sam freaked me out, I was like, just get to the important stuff already Let's speculate! What is the GIFT?! Being Euron has been in the series a whole 15 minutes, he's rising quickly as one of my favorite characters.  Could be, I thought the song was about Jaime until someone on this sub pointed out it was about Tyrion in the books. Hmm, I'll have to check this out... Sansa. The new Cersei, all crazy but no incest! Nice!

Update!
Checked it out... When Sansa is talking to Baelish, her hair is done the same as Cersei... I can speculate that either this is a typical hairstyle for a queen or royalty of sort, or she is slowly becoming Cersei>Having a nice bowl of chili while watching this episode was a mistake.  

Could you differentiate between food and waste? I couldn't: vomitI was eating chili during that one episode of Sons of Anarchy where they hid heads in the chili...Thanks for the gold, dear humanI watched this episode after having my wisdom teeth taken out. I'm on a soup diet for the next 3 days fml.Adding those Baby Ruth bars to it was even worse.*dry heaves*You'd think the Citadel would have better food being the finest academic institution on the continent. Guess not.Yes, Jon appoints him. Oh man that opposite Catspaw page is totally about dragonglass candles - we need more!
That's the power you get when you mingle with the Lord of light That's how I see it as!Because she's grown. Just like sophie. They've "put on weight" because they're grown women past puberty. the start of the season 6 finale, the trial and the destruction of the sept was very slow and beautiful and epic amazing.. the pace being slow was brilliant for the show...

The entire concept of luring Lancel into the tunnels and stabbing him in such a precise way that he's crippled (assuming that a 10 year old child could make such an awesome stab wound through his spinal cord) so that he could crawl and ALMOST 'save the day' made zero strategic sense; if anything it artificially created a situation that might have possibly ruined the entire plan for no real benefit except to show the audience what was happening; it was a great scene but you have to suspend rational thought sometimes :)) The final was one of the most eventful episodes of anything I've seen in a while. Tough to out pace that in a season opener. I agree with the "quiet" part.  It actually took me off guard, a little bit.  Still, though, this has to be one of my favorite episodes thus far just because of the number of one-liners the writers came up with.Well, now that they all know that the POINT of the Night's Watch is actually the Others and not the damn (mostly harmless) Freefolk...yeah.Yessssss.  I thought it was like a lowkey dig the writers put in.  The sheer amount of oneliners they came up with definitely made this episode pretty hilarious.I think Jon will leave Winterfell to try and establish an alliance with Dany and leave Sansa in charge, while Littlefinger will keep trying to sow discord among them and have her turn on him. Ultimately I feel (and hope) that she will remain loyal to her family and turn on Littlefinger since to be honest, I think Littlefinger's hold over the vale is pretty weak, even more so with Sansa present.Loved the Arya scenes, especially the one at the end of the end of credits preview scene showing arya's encounter with an old friend...I got the vibe that Sansa is going to play him and then he ends up dead (either by her hand or by Arya's).That's where I see it going as well!Do remember it's been thousands of years since the long night, the others are but legends and myths now, so maybe the urgency isn't really that prominent right now, plus the wall is still up. Why would they have a reason to be scared?

Dragonstone is just a fort on an island, to man the fort and defend it, you need a sizeable army. Any less, the invading army can overrun the fort easily. Stannis is gone. The fort is empty, there is no real significant to manning an island since it doesn't hold give much strategic advantage. People can just sale around it straight to Kings landing.

Most of her enemies want Kings landing, she doesn't have much of an ally base. So she won't have much troops to sit and party in dragonstone and wait to be killed. She also doesn't know when Dany is coming or if she will even come, so kind of a waste to have a few troops stationed there to be slaughtered when she come, not to mention resource to carry food and stuff for the troops on the island 1.  I think Sam was asking the Archmaester about getting access to the Restricted section of the library.  You have to remember that, like we saw in last season, the Citadel is super bureaucratic and bent on rules and procedures.  The Archmaester probably thinks Sam is overreacting because he can't quite comprehend how dire the situation is up North and, because, he figures the status quo will be maintained regardless.

2.  My theory is that the scene where Dany is walking into Dragonstone takes place after whatever garrison was left had already surrendered, since it looked like the place was completely deserted.Yeah - I'm surprised they didn't run into each other and quite certain the Iron Fleet is trapped right now unless there was some weird timeline thing going on in this episode.The only thing I can think is that the Iron Fleet entered Blackwater Bay before Dany got to Dragonstone. We may be getting a big naval battle pretty soon....Was the singing guy Ed Sheeran?I think we're gonna get a mirroring of Jaime's murder of the Mad King. Dany is going to attack Kings Landing. The city will be under siege with absolutely no hope of Lannister victory. Instead of surrendering, Cersei will order the remaining wildfire to be lit, burning the city to the ground. Jaime will do the same thing he did last time a ruler ordered that, and kill Cersei.yasssssssIt makes me happy seeing so much positivity Definitely one of the better premiere episodes throughout all the seasons. I enjoyed it a lot because there was plot progression instead of just having it be episode 10.5 like last season. 

There are some people that have complained about this episode not really following the whole "show don't tell", but for me it was more important for the scenes guilty of this to convey their message rather than just focusing on how the message was conveyed. Sam's pot-scrubbing scene was perfect. It gave us some breathing room and really helped with the pace of the episode. It might be that she's just closer to King's Landing. If Winter is coming, it doesn't matter how great of an assassin she is, she's going to freeze to death.Interesting you say this... She tells Hagar she's "going home." But also, maybe since she is Arya/No One, she still has a mission to complete (the list). Either way, it is confusing.It's gotta be the former. At this point, I'm sure everyone would have heard about Jon's defeat of Ramsay and being declared Dakingindanorf, right? Maybe she's just really out-of-touch, but I think it's gotta be the vengeance driving her.As much as I want to love the Frey massacre scene, I do have to agree with you that it was obviously very lazily written. I know it was bone-chilling for a lot of people, but I just didn't think it hit that sweet spot of brilliance and vengeance. How was Arya's scene with the Lannister soldiers pointless? It establishes that Arya isn't a total psychopath, it gives us the general mood of the normal Lannister soldier, and it reminds us the viewer that there are normal people in Westeros who are caught up in the wars to come. Scene's of Walder and his Freys deaths did not do Red Wedding justice. Did seem over the top and a cop out with little build up and more like a Free Big Mac from McDonalds rather than a gift certificate to Sizzler.It's pretty poorly positioned to be of much use in the wars to come. It's not far enough north to be in a good defensive position against the White Walkers. It's not far enough south to be useful against the Lannisters. It's too far inland to be useful against the Ironborn. It's useful in helping to control the eastern half of the North when the North is divided, but when the North is united, it's pretty strategically useless.I'm thinking most viewers can't even tell you what the Dreadfort is, which is sad. Lol. The show is a less tactical take on the mythos and since we have 12 episodes left, doubt the showrunners go into such detail.Nvm, it's all over new but not top!Keep watching :D...yet...Didn't break the Wall...what about the magic that prevents the dead from crossing the Wall?Dear God, I never thought of that! Wow, that would be interesting. Also, the Boltons are completely extinct so there's no point It's pretty poorly positioned to be of much use in the wars to come. It's not far enough north to be in a good defensive position against the White Walkers. It's not far enough south to be useful against the Lannisters. It's too far inland to be useful against the Ironborn. It's useful in helping to control the eastern half of the North when the North is divided, but when the North is united, it's pretty strategically useless.

Time synchronicity has been the biggest flaw of the show. Runtime, budgets, etc. have really limited what could be even more amazing. Still the greatest show of all time, perhaps, though.One of my favorite details from the show! One of my favorite details from the show! I didn't get the "and now she's even crazier!" feel from Cersei this episode. Rather, she's in a position where she really doesn't know what she's doing, just that she fucking *needs* that throne or else everything she's lost will be for nothing. People are really fucking mad about Ed Sheeran.Yeah, the leather pants were a bit much. But I loved the cape thing.Think they were probably going after that "pirate look" inspired by Johnny Depp. Lol.Was definitely expecting at least like 5 guards and a castellan or something but I get why the show decided to go the emotional albeit rather illogical route. In the books there would have probably been a small garrison of either Stannis loyalists or Lannisters who had retaken Dragonstone from Stannis. Either way, though, it would have been a relatively small force. Once Dany rolled up on it with her fleet, the Iron Fleet, an army of Unsullied, and 3 dragons, any defensive force would have had no chance. The choice was either a short, uneventful, suspensless battle with no emotional weight, or the scene of Dany stepping foot on Westeros, reclaiming her ancestral castle (and birthplace). I'll take the slightly unrealistic abandoned castle since it means we get the more emotionally impactful scene.I think Dany and her crew are going to attack Kings Landing. The situation will be hopeless, and, instead of surrendering, Cersei is going to order the entire city burned to the ground. Echoing his murder of the Mad King, Jaime is going to kill Cersei.No, you're not. The character is just very poorly written. Ugh, again, what a terrible scene... on par with the awful Kingsmoot...

It really gets me how there can be such great and such terrible writing in the same episodes of this show...Wow, surprised you didn't get that immediately. I got it as a crack at Jamie and I'm still not getting the sexual innuendo, errr help?I read it as a crack at Jaime, and also a turn of phrase on the 'Offering one's hand in marriage' thing.I'm honestly surprised not many people caught that slight immediately. Especially cutting straight to Jaime afterwards. I thought it was both.Or when he told her she ought to try killing her brother sometime. The guy has no boundaries!!I think the mark Bran got from the Night King that allowed the NK to enter the 3-Eyed Raven's lair will also break the magic that prevents the Army of the Dead from passing the Wall.

I think the Dragonbinder (or some show equivalent) will probably play into Euron's gift. I don't think he would just give Cersei the horn though. He would want to use it to steal a dragon, and give Cersei a dragon as his gift. Either that, or he'll just try to kill Tyrion.I thought we saw Jon beyond the Wall in the season trailer? So north then I guess?Wouldn't that be like telling him in a text message? Bad form. Or Sam finds info in the books he's reading about Jon's true parentage. Someone's gotta back Bran up. No one will believe the truth otherwise. Remember that Benjen helped them most of the way. He left them when they made it to the wall (or nearby)My thoughts exactly, I was thinking about her legs.All I could think of was Gayle pulling Bob Belcher back to the restaurant...Yeah, I am starving, and just dragged this post-pubescent fully man-sized Bran for like, weeks. Oh and by the way, he is spooky as fuck. Sees you when you're sleeping, knows when you're awake. 
...Meera is the GOATHow Meera must have felt when two of the nights watch started dragging Bran...pussiesI can't believe there wasn't a jon/bran reunion scene. Literally didn't even acknowledge his arrivalOkay nephew, I'm going to be needing my dead horse back now...They had both aged a lot to be fairShe seemed so exhausted. I hope the night's watch has some eggs and bacon for her, or whatever she talked about in the cave before the white walkers came.She must be yoked as fuck now. They got help most of the way from Coldhands/Benjen. She just dragged him from the nearest Hart Tree.It only seems heavy-handed because you're expecting it, I watched it with people who are oblivious to the theories and I guarantee they didn't pick it up. Also a couple of references to the Dragonpit in Kings Landing.But the soldiers were all younger men who just want to get back to their families. I think if they were older men i'd agree more. They were a lot more loose than a usual soldier. They mentioned the killings, and yet they still didn't really seem to care when a stranger, even if it were a girl, came along.  a lot of the episode seemed to hint that the younger upcoming generation is much different than the one currently in power. traditions are constantly being challengedI was so disappointed with the whole arrival at Dragonstone. She's supposedly wanted this her whole life, you'd think she'd be a bit more excited than "ugh, there's dust here".By the POV camera shots we get, it's clear that initially she was planning to kill them all. Goooood catch.MacumberMost underrated comment I've seen today! What a catch!I don't think Arya has any intention of harming them unless they give her a reason. I think part of the point of the scene was to show that she hasn't turned into a soulless psycho. (in addition to letting the uninvolved girls in the Frey murder scene live)yeah i was hoping the hound would turn around and say "logs burning" a second time and flip off thoros. :( but maybe the lord of light feels like it's more urgent and lay people can read his messages in the flames now. that, or something crazy happened with the hound after his traumatic burn where he has some sort of connection with flames even though he fears them?Well for one the Vale isn't part of the North, they don't really have any reason to bend the knee. I think they are probably also in more of a place of power than Jon and the rest of the North. They have an army untouched by war and well equipped and the North has been devastated by wars and infighting. He's bent the knee before and still fucked people over. I don't think Jon is as interested in vows and titles and such at this point.I mean, were there really any Targaryen "bannermen"? The other great houses developed their alliances over the course of millennia and having nearby lords swear fealty. The Targaryens weren't even around until 300 years prior to the present and pretty much just beat everyone into submission. There were houses who remained loyal to the Targaryens throughout the rebellion (Tyrell, Martell, Redwyne, Tarly, Connington, Darry, etc). But after the Targaryens were eliminated and King's Landing was taken, the lords of those Houses did not really have any other option other than to swear fealty to their new king. They were outnumbered and probably cared more for the stability of the realm than actually caring who sat on the throne.Interesting to see how that will play out since when the lord of light is real, then the great other is also real ...Idk if it means the lord of light is real, but it confirms (once again) that fire magic is real. There is also ice magic (white walkers, children of the forest, wargs), blood magic (faceless men, Melisandre's leech), and salt water magic (people drowning but washing up alive). There may be other sources of magic as well. But I see the stories surrounding the magic more as myth/legend than fact.I personally think the Lord of Light has been proven real for quite some time now. He's brought people back to life, created magical fire swords, produced visions and shadow demon baby creatures. The fact that a non believer sees something in the flames really makes the case that it is the Lord of Light who is the one who let's people see and not the person themselves. 

Thoros himself said that when he revived Beric for the first time he didn't believe in the Lord of Light anymore, he just said the prayers because it was all he knew and all he could do to ask for help. You can also Melisandre's leech magic worked when she took the blood from Gendry and named all the other "usurpers" for death. They did all end up dying and while that could very well be coincidence it still had the intended effect. Either way, I think we've seen enough to say that the Lord of Light is legit as hell. All the Seven do is get blown up by wildfire and the old gods just cry sap from trees all day while the Lord of Light is doing crazy ass magic stuff.It proves magic is real, like all magic attributed to R'hllor. i just commented on this above too. maybe he has some sort of connection with the flames/burning that happened after his brother put his face on the fire? he just didn't know about it because he a) isn't a believer and b) is afraid of fire and avoids it at all costs. could have to do with magic in the world increasing too? Yea. Also I thought it was strange that he agreed so quickly and with such enthusiasm to face the entire undead army. Jon told him to head up to meet them and Tormund was like, "SIGN ME UP!"Before or after Arya?The bad writing only applies to season 5 and onwards. Im bingin the sopranos and am noticing the same thingMad men is boring af. Give me weak dialogue, awesome visuals and music, and an interesting story over that repetitive bullshit any day of the week.So that we could see how far it's already progressed. In-Universe I dunno, doesn't Greyscale drive men mad? I'm sure Jorah is still mostly Jorah, but maybe it's starting to get to him. I think he joined Jon's party. He was just hanging out in Winterfell with the other Lords.Looked like a Femur or some sort of bone. I didn't get a great look at it.It's the quality of the show going down. That's what you're experiencing. More one liners, more drama, less logic, less consistency. There's very little "life as usual" going on throughout the continent. People are starving, farms have been razed and raided, people in important families are shut up in their strongholds instead of parading around in pretty clothing and waving their political dicks around. Cersei's rule is very much like Scar's in the Lion King: there are people alive but the world around her is withering. That's why there was the uprising of the religious fanatics - because the "smallfolk" were all getting killed and trampled. And the ones that yet live and have managed to defend their lands or their families are taking refuge in the castles and forts of their lords. And those people were the backbone of the entire flourishing society they had going on. Primary producers and primary consumers.If that's the case, then why is there a giant Lannister lion hanging behind the Iron Throne?

She's claimed the Throne as a Lannister. She was basically the last noble with any men left in KL after the Sept went boom.I must have missed that part, but that doesn't change much.Also true I hadn't thought about that actually. I feel like it has to be Jamie, the real Jamie who kills her.Just read that part and it seems pretty obvious that the gravedigger is Clegane. Yeah but didn't he not get permission to enter the restricted section until AFTER that passage of time? if that was his reason then he would have needed to burn the bodies... burying doesn't stop them from rising...I don't know, but I don't think they could miss the **massive** Greyjoy fleet if they were at Dragonstone. Here is a map:

http://www.sermountaingoat.co.uk/map/versions/speculative_map.jpgHmm, that's true, but Cersei and Jaime's wording made it seem like they were already near Dragonstone and that was before we saw the Greyjoy fleet sailing into the bay. He said "The Wall" according to the subtitles.so does the twins...Yeah, I can see why the show wouldn't use child engagement/marriage as a viable option for the hero.  But they can always be married matrilineally, like Maege.  Lyanna's a smart girl, she knows marrying the Umber boy would give her the Unber lands; I think she would agree to it.It was definetly Jorah; in the streaming edition on HBO Now the subtitles even identified him specifically as the speaker.that is a possibility but at this point it is still only a theory; we don't know that bran's crossing had any impact on the spells in the wall. That wasn't the point of the articleMy thoughts on this, is the mark just cancels out the magic only when the host is in the area of the barrier.

Example, Bran can be marked, the barrier is still active until the marked one in the barrier or passes through the barrier.The particular post i was complaining about actually did amount to "Brans got a tracking device on him, and so the NK can still find him even south of the wall"

Nothing to do with the magic of passing barriers, just "he's trackable so Westeros is done fucked"It is more than implied; the subtitles (at least on HBO Now streaming feed) clearly identified "Jorah" as the speaker.AH JORAH!  
  
Thanks!Thank you!Interesting Interesting logic. 

"I don't like murderers but it's cool if my Wife is a murderer"there are lots of Lanisters' they are the last of their line so when they die some other Lanister will become head of the house; - The soldiers that Arya met in the forest in the last episode were all Lanisters.Thanks!Euron should have taken and manned Dragonstone on Cersei's behalf.  Which leads to the next question: why didn't Cersei already have Dragonstone in her possession?The show really does a good propaganda job for the Iron Islands. Jaime even points out that they are just a bunch of pirates with no resources.  Cersei, even with Euron, has no chance against Cersei's enemies.  Also, where did they get the wood for those ships?Better than "Nice weather, innit?"I thought that was directly referring to how she has a hot bod?  He even has a whole monologue about how if she took her shirt off her teats would stay right where they were. Never thought he was talking about how she was pregnant. And I, as a viewer, did not at all think she was showing her pregnancy. Looked thin and toned as always to me. But even if they did know, the writing did a shit job of letting us know her being pregnant was common knowledge. She tells Robb behind closed doors, then nobody mentions it at all. So maybe it's common knowledge, but I was never led to believe that it was. [removed]I had more time to look and the theory I was thinking about is the one that says the mark Bran has is the one who will be responsible to break the magic of the Wall. The mark did break the protection magic in the cave where 3 eyed raven and the Children were, so maybe it can have the same effect on the Wall.Yup, the show is setting up the character so they can hit the bullseye, the rest of the Domino's will fall like a house of cards. Checkmate, roll credits Still found it mostly meh.Maybe this is bitch Cersei with the short hair. She is no longer the pretty queen or mom to the king with the long hair...

Or maybe this is her way of saying f u to Kings landing for making her do the walk of shame and she wears the short hair as pride...It is curious that they don't know that it was a single girl that killed all the frey men... I would think that at least one of the surviving witnesses would have mentioned that detail... It's also puzzling to me that they didn't ask where she had come from since she was apparently heading south from the direction of the Twins which is one of the few places where you can cross the river and there aren't a lot of other towns in that direction that she could have come from...clearly Jorah is at Oldtown in an isolated cell and Varys clearly collaborated with Tyrions escape so it seems pretty unlikely that he's the source of any spy data headed back to Cersei.

Naming Tyrion as the hand is not something that would have been kept secret; lots of people would have known and a lot of people would have also seen the preparations for that large armada of ships preparing to sail... Anyone could have passed that information along. That's way too complicated for the showI understand the deeper Meanings and their value, but they could have been more cleverly shot. 
Arya sequence I felt didn't even add anything other than that being a bad ass scene of a fan favorite character. We already thought the Freys are done. 

Sam's montages could have been little shorter. 

Hound burial scene was too lengthy we already know from dialogue that he has changed and feels they don't deserve it. So they need not dragged that burial scene that long. 

I know all these serves a purpose and may be the creators know better. But with just 12 more episodes to go I felt they could have used up the time more effectively. It's either defeating sand snakes, as the third episode description says Cersei returns a gift, or it's the horn that can be used to control dragons. I see you're unfamiliar with academic institutions.the Citadel is not the Church/Faith. I don't think their coffers are that deep, they just get sponsored by lords no?Well, that's just the shit they're feeding to the new recruits. I'm sure the higher-ups are taking full advantage of Oldtown's trade.It always sounded more like a monastery to meI really wish Grenn would've survived and became the Lord Commander.  I hope that's how it works in the books.I'll concede point 2 really just because of Dany's dragons. If not for the dragons they could absolutely hold Dragonstone against a siege and at least slow her down significantly and prevent her from establishing a base of operations in Westeros. The dragons would end the siege quickly though so perhaps it makes strategic sense for Cersei to leave the castle vacant.

I am still very confused on point 1 though. They don't necessarily have a "reason to be scared" but the Archmaester specifically told Sam that he believed him. Maybe they're not worried about the White Walkers making it all the way to Oldtown but it still stands to reason that many innocent people could die north of the wall (and, if the Walkers somehow make it past the wall, countless could die throughout Westeros). Again, all he needs to do is send a raven. It just doesn't make sense why the Maesters would intentionally withhold that information unless it is part of a larger plot. His speech seems like hand-waving by the writers because it really doesn't hold up to any scrutiny. Or just fled after they saw three dragons.YeahThe actor addressed this in an interview saying that it's too predictable and I agree with him. Definitely one of the more common theories out there, but who knows he could just be saying that to throw us off. her last scene before her encounter with the lannister soldiers was at the twins which is about halfway between Winterfell and Kings Landing (if i'm scaling the map correctly it's probably around 100 miles closer to Winterfell if we assume the books '300 mile' scale for the wall is accurate (as opposed to Sam's estimate of 500 miles). Either way it's easily a day further on horseback to go to kings landing vs Winterfell. - I'd have to guess that it's either her thirst for revenge or maybe she isn't aware that Jon has retaken Winterfell.I'm not sure how it established that she isn't a psychopath, that she didn't just murder them all? Yet, her scene prior to that does a pretty good job of establishing her psychopathy. 

My opinion of the scene being pointless is there were numerous scenes that seemed like filler in a show that is apparently short on time. Haha, yea. I mean, it's difficult with time constraints and what were they going to do? Show a Frey civil war for control? Too many characters and not enough impact on the end game. I probably would have been fine with them just not mentioning the Freys anymore. Just, "they are battling to control the Twins, eating themselves. So they are useless." 

After the show doing the same thing to the Tyrells, it just felt unnecessary. This is true. The fact is, this is a numbers game and if they aren't careful, they're going to thin themselves out too much.Yeah man, scroll down. I was shocked too! Had to make a post about it. Horn of Joramun foreshadow was also made when the maester says that even if The Long Night occurs, there's no way the WW's can pass through the wall (yeah right, buddy)Well the most popular theory was that since Benjen can't come back south of the Wall, and now Bran having the Night King's mark, him crossing the Wall would literally break it, allowing Night King to cross over, much like what happened back at the weirwood tree. The magic "prevents" the undead from crossing.

It was a shitty theory to be honest. What happened at the weirwood tree was a change in alternate future. The mark that Bran got did not act as ticket to the protected grove. Instead it marked out Bran's current location allowing the Night King to present himself as sson as the warg connection was broken.I totally agree and pass it off as "it's a show" but I knew this was inevitable when his final scene last season was something like "build me a thousand ships by next week"Really don't understand this. I'm not a fan of him or anything but I thought it was some nice lighthearted thing for the show to have especially after finding out that they did it for Maisie Williams. Like it felt like one of those sitcoms moments where you roll your eyes in a good natured way coz of the antics of people. And it's hilariousIn the books Stannis leaves a castellan in charge but Ser Loras takes it back for Cersei getting badly burned in the process. I don't think there was one? I thought it was at first and didn't understand but then I realized he was just poking at Jaime for only having 1 hand. Well I did say I was an idiot 😅I think a bit, but clearly a dig at Jaime. It cut to him right after and he didn't look happy.Also no subtext. Which bothers me way more.The absolute madman!See, I figured he was talking about Tyrion, there.Was he not referring to Tyrian there?> Both very good points. Man, I've been waiting for the horn of joramun to be mentioned more and so I've got my fingers crossed. As for your extrapolation on Euros actually stealing a dragon WITH the horn and using that as a gift (it's gotta be Drogon, too), I like that theory way more.I suspect that the item buried in Lyanna's crypt is going to be the proof of Jon's true parents; I suspect it's going to be Rhaegars Harp (at least in the books) - I wouldn't be too suprised if the show uses something different because the show hasn't mentioned Rhaegar's harp very often in any previous episodes; the only time I recall it being mentioned at all in the show was in Ser Barrister's conversation with Dany where he spoke of Rhaegar playing the harp however in the book almost every time Rhaegar is discussed the harp is mentioned.

I think there is 'something else' in the crypts as well that Jon needs to find but the evidence of his parents is probably hidden in Lyannas Tomb.But I recall little finger knows. He will no doubt back Bran/Jon for a fee.Jon is at Winterfell, lolGrease ran down her chins as she devoured them.Probably not. They didn't have much food to eat on that trip. Hard to get jacked without proper nutrition.  Not to mention rest is also a key part of the process for rebuilding the muscles. They have Ecstasy in Westeros?
Every 5 minutes...

Acrobatic skill has increased.

Acrobatic skill has increased.

Acrobatic skill has increased.

Acrobatic skill has increased.

Acrobatic skill has increased.

Acrobatic skill has increased.

Acrobatic skill has increased.

Acrobatic skill has increased.
Glutes like a rugby playerYou think she's strong? You should see Gendry nowadays. 5 seasons of straight rowing he's probably fit to take down both Cleganes in one fell swoop at this point.not as yoked as Gendry..dude been rowing for like 4 seasons...he must have some Hogan level python's now iirc, from when Jon goes to complete his vows in front of that tree, that's still pretty farThat is quite a ways to drag what's essentially a lot of dead weight.I had already assumed the show retconned the dragonpit, because it's never visible in any of the King's Landing shots.I take it as "this is just a taste of what's to come". Which I believe is how she felt, by her final line. She's in awe of finally being in westeros, but she has 7 kingdoms to win still. Guess i'll have to watch it again - I didn't get the same vibe.  I'd be curious to see her fight that many people at once with a piercing weapon.  She can't just overpower people and cut them down like the hound.I just took it to mean that with the dragons getting bigger and stronger and nearer, magic is becoming more common.But why assume that there's even a higher entity at work and not some kind of other force driving the prophecy?also i feel like the lord of light and old gods are the only ones that are actually real. it seems like the canon is slowly suggesting that the "civilized" and widely accepted religion, the new gods, is bull because they never seem to do much for people and horrible stuff happens in the south anyway. but with the three-eyed raven and the ability to see through trees, and the lord of light, and all associated magics related, it's pretty clear in my mind that they're real. He doesn't really have a reason to be afraid though. Haven't you heard how big his cock is?[deleted]Right, I missed him then. About to re-watch so i'll keep an eye out, surprised there wasn't any dialogue with him, they really built him up and gave him a steady role in the last season. Good point. I'll have to rewatch... If so, guess he won the westeros 649This is sealing what are talking about, "near" in that travel probably mean weeks. I agree they needed a better way to show the time jumps.Then who marries the Karstark?Probably was an answer to the second q The legit complaint would be that bran somehow canceled out the magic at the wall that may prevent the others from passing through. Oh, well yeah that's dumb.  Why wouldn't the NK know where the Wall is?  Literally all you have to do is head south lol.Yes, yes they did.>"I don't like murderers but it's cool if my Wife is a murderer" said the murderer.


Fixed it for you

He's not cool with it, he just wants to snap her out of it.That's a way Euron could've gone. But I don't think it would've been enough to sway her favor. 

Disorganization, and fear, would be my guess. 

Even completely unguarded, you'd need a sizable force to do anything with Dragonstone. You could garrison a few troops, but then you can't launch any attacks from it, just keep it, which isn't very helpful to her at the moment. If you send a large number of troops to hold it, so that you can launch attacks from there, you leave yourself with less men to defend King's Landing, a much more valuable target. Except they do have resources: a buttload of ships. Not enough to win, probably, but they will certainly lose without them. 

They got the wood from the trees on the mainland. The North wasn't organized until recently, and even if they were, under Bolton control, they weren't going to waste time attacking tree-chopping Iron Islanders when they were dealing with the real threat of Jon Snow and his ilk. What are you on about and why are you taking that hostile tone about it? She told Robb she was pregnant several episodes before the Red Wedding just after he tells Edmure he's going to have to marry a Frey. There's plenty of time between that event and the Red Wedding for that news to have spread offscreen. You can see her baby bump at the Red Wedding, and she is stabbed directly in the baby bump multiple times. Roose Bolton is stabbed in his lower abdomen in a very different place. 

But seriously dude, this is a conversation, and your tone is totally uncalled for.Everyone already knew before the Red Wedding, including Robb. What she told Robb at the wedding was that she wanted to name him Ned, not that she was pregnantI personally don't think those guys are done on the show and something will happen early next episode so we may get some answers there. But honestly probably not lolI would agree with you if I was worried about the director ability to shoot the conclusion, I feel that we will start to gain momentum once all the set pieces are in place, I think that's why I wasn't too concerned with pacing in this first episode. Though we've deviated from the books and now in uncharted territory. These 13 episodes (including episode 1) will be new for everyone so who knows what we have in store. 

Note though, season 7 has a running time of 442 minutes, which is on average 8-10 more minutes per episode than the past. Season 7 finale is 81 minutes long! So to reiterate, I don't think I'm too concerned with pacing.... Yeti should have never asked! I'm one of those people who do not watch the trailers for an upcoming season or next weeks episode promos... Yes, even though they never give anything away, I still avoid watching them all together. 

The horn that can be used to control dragons* mindblownI don't know how their economy works. How does one hire a maester?He's actually shown slopping some of that soup into the bowls of the higher ups at the separate table, so it seems everyone eats low key.

I imagine that gives them an incentive to get out and serve a lord ASAP.Hmm, I see your argument for point 1. I figured that these Maesters are still trying to be scholars and better their knowledge of medicine, knowledge of politics, trade, and recording everything that happened. I think they are out of touch as to their true purpose and ensuring that they help to avoid the imminent doom that is to come with their old books etc (similar to how the nights watch true purpose has diluted over the last 1000 years).
I also think that they might not be sure how to help, and even if they believe Sam, they hope that the wall is what protects them. The wall had lasted a thousand years and no sign of the others, why would he doubt that the wall would fail now?

I assume the Maester has better things than to worry about a wall that is still standing, after all, winter is coming and there is a massive war for the 7 kingdoms. What is more important at that moment?

but yea... lazy maester for not sending a raven at the very leastFlee where though?  They're on an island surrounded by a massive navy.The actors also made a pretty big deal of assuring everyone that Jon was actually dead at the end of season 5. Everyone knew he was coming back, but they still insisted he wasn't. I don't generally take an actor's word on upcoming plot. They have every reason to try to deflect or confuse you.Still warmer than trying to reach the North, which would mean making it through the Neck.These scenes aren't pointless.  The entire show can't be pure action.  There has to be character development.If she was really bad, she would have allowed Walder's wife to die and she would have killed more of the servant girls. Instead, she leaves them alive.Well that's exactly why the should *not* worry about garrisoning or defending the Dreadfort. Conscript everyone there who can fight, definitely, but don't waste valuable manpower reinforcing or defending a castle that gains you no tactical advantage.LOL yeah dude. These are slaveships."It felt like a sitcom"

- thats why people hated itYeah, I thought it was pretty hilarious and some good character development.I liked it! And besides, they left the real acting to the real actors and didn't give him that huge of a scene. Ah good, I was just worried that I might be missing a trick.I thought it was purposefully ambiguous. Like, he meant it as a sly dig at Jaime, but he has plausible deniability that he was referring to Tyrion.The more I think about it, the more I think you're right. 


I thought he was going to try to capture tyrion, that line makes more sense even though he said "kill your brother" before he said he was bringing back a gift I'm actually think it's NOT Drogon. I'm hoping Euron will successfully steal a dragon and we get a mid-air dragon vs dragon fight. If that's the case, it can't be Drogon because I don't want Dany to lose her dragon.how does Littlefinger know?

Howland Reed knows; Bran knows (now) but has no physical proof that's going to convince anyone; there were a couple of women mentioned in the books that helped care for infant 'jon snow' and helped in the deception that might still be alive but I don't recall their names or if their names were even given. it's a very small circle of people that know the truth about Jon's parents.GRRM is that you?Oars is the furyhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UNiNJ6vVRs4What is yoked? Sounds swexyGendry should mount Meera's shoulders they will be unstoppableGendry probably discovered ASOIAF's world version of America alreadyI just rewatched that episode, Commander Mormont says the nearest tree is about a mile north of the Wall.Isn't the phrase dead w(e)ight a bit redundant? She's a faceless man so her powers are vaguely magical, the viewer doesn't know what she can do but we know Jaqen was able to kill a few dozen people in Harrenhal single handedly. The books outline some non magical tricks they use to kill though, like that stuff that will make a dog kill anyone near it. The POV shots also show her assessing where everyone's weapons are and she (the shot) sees that most of them have put their swords in a pile out of their own reach. She's the only one armed at the moment she says she wants to kill the queen (there might be 1 armed guy, but I'm unsure). I thought it was a pretty well shot scene, it used a lot of POV shots to show Arya's inner monolog. yeah. it could be a stretch, for sure. i'm pretty unsure how i feel about hound reading the flamesdid he fook a bear?LolYou just described game of thrones too...Hmm, yea, it is a lot easier to tell a time skip in the books. Show just seems jumbled together, like with Varys was suddenly with Dany when he was in Dorne like minutes before the scene. I don't know, to be honest.  I'm sure there is some house with an unwed son that fought for Jon; maybe the Royces?  They don't have an heir or (living) lesser sons on the show so far.  Would help bind the Vale to Jon's kingdom.No you didnt. Jamie didn't burn innocents to death with wildfire. That's completely incorrect I dont think allowing the enemy to gain a foothold like dragonstone with no resistence at all is a sign of good military leadership. And just think of the Targ propaganda victory Dany was just handed!I seriously doubt that it's going to be the Horn because it has never been mentioned at all in the show. It has been mentioned in the books and was in the posession of Euron already by this point in his travels. However your "mindblown" reaction is exactly why I doubt it would be "the gift" because anyone that is ONLY watching the show has absolutely no clue that this thing even exists; if it was an important plot element I suspect it would have been mentioned already somewhere during the last 6 seasons... (Granted I could easily be wrong here; but it seems like suddenly introducing this powerful magic horn with no foreshadowing is 'weird' - even for a world with dragons and faceless shapeshifting assasins)Oops sorry. But GoT is the only series where the more you speculate the more fun it is.. There is a ton of possibilities and   still the show surprises you! The fleet would be coming from one direction. Get in your ships and flee in the other direction.Yep. Just a little pseudo credence I like to add to my tinfoil theory. But I mean moving away from tinfoil I do believe that it's a bit too obvious if that is what happens, like I'd personally have Cersei and Jaime die differently even move away from the prophecy completely. Just my preference though. true but she's a stark; heck even sansa survived running through a freezing northern river in the winter and Sansa's a wuss. Maybe she just really headed south to meet up with a certain wolfpack or she's just heading to the crossroads to get another yummy hot pie special.I have a hard time reconciling one's psychopathy while they murder many. They probably did. maybe it's just me but i had no idea who Ed Sheeran is so I didn't even notice the "sitcom" aspect of it... I only found out after i read several comments complaining about it...I think the gift might be a weapon to fight the dragons.Ahhhh, I see. I guess I was thinking Drogon because of the symbiotic connection she seems to have with him (naming him after the Khal, he's the biggest one, seems to have a love/hate/neurotic relationship with her at times but always saves her) etc. and for GRRM's almost poetic and Shakespearean form of writing, it would make sense. But that may be too much for the show. [YOKED](https://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=Yoked)
-


>Originally referring to a strong or [large trap muscle](http://70sbig.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/yoke.jpg) between the shoulder and neck. Word originates from the "yoke" that is placed around the [neck of oxen](https://www.lds.org/bc/content/shared/content/images/magazines/new-era/2012/10/ne12oct24-25-000-take-my-yoke-upon-you-N12OCA24-25.jpg). Has now developed into a broad term for hugeness and strength.

If you would like a more in depth explanation, [here is an essay](https://www.elitefts.com/education/motivation/livin-the-shrug-life/) by [Abraham Lincoln](https://s3.amazonaws.com/media.tmz.com/2015/02/11/abraham-lincoln-sexy-photos-018-1200x630.jpg).  It is long; it came to 6 pages when I pasted it into MS Word. 

If this sounds appealing to you and you would like to "get yoked" yourself, [here](https://www.elitefts.com/education/training/increase-your-neck-size/) is Princess Diana's personal lifting and eating regimen.

Lastly I leave you with a quote from the yoke master [Ben Stein](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ben_Stein).

>…a big yoke = instant respect. No one wants to screw with a guy that has a big neck and a thick yoke. A massive yoke smells of hard work, strength, fighting and toughness. Every other muscle can be small if a big yoke is present.
Slang for buff/ripped, or aka "swoll."Play water chicken for the fate of Westeros, only half the deaths in the Riverlands.Yeah, but to bad he's one of those dumbass "flat-A the." :LMaybe Gendry can answer Aryas question of whats West of Westeros.Soooo... ships going west from Westeros don’t return. Ships going west in lotR don’t return (any more). Middle Earth confirmed?No because you could drag something/someone who is helping (like dragging someone by the hands and they push with their feet) or also fighting against it. She's a bit OPHe himself is still a murderer, regardless if it was just or not. In many eyes he is still a king slayer and so a murdererI agree. I don't think Cersei is a very good or smart military leader, nor Euron, for that matter. Both are out for blood, not victory, though they don't really get that. And then the ships get torched by the flying dragons.  Much easier to surrender and be absorbed into the lady with dragon's army.Sansa was starting to freeze to death and only survived because Brienne and Pod came and helped them make a fire.She killed them because they killed Robbs entire army, her mother, Robbs pregnant wife etc. - It wasn't JUST Walder Frey that murdered guests in their home. Perhaps some of them did not take an active part but the majority of them did; I hardly find it "psychopathic" to remove a cancer from society and the Freys were a very vile cancer.I'd bet it's Highgarden and/or destroying Dany's fleet.
Esos? LoLThe whole of Westeros is going to die in a flurry of ice and fire, and Gendry is going to row up to King's Landing and sit on the throne with shoulders of granite.Westereros.underrated commentcon-fuckin'-firmed!Why would you drag a wight?That's so completely illogicalIt's perfectly reasonable to take your chances against pursuit and flee if you're scared and you have no idea if they're gonna kill you or not.   right, but Arya isn't a Wuss; she's never even wanted to be a 'princess'. Arya was pretty badass when she was 10; now she's a trained killing machine!That's a very bleak outlook on life. [Muscle-gendry Buffaratheon](https://vignette2.wikia.nocookie.net/spongebob/images/9/96/Anchorarms.jpeg/revision/latest?cb=20140430224823)You wouldn't but the phrase used was dead weight. Let's break it down...
A murderer is defined loosely as "a killer". Jaime has killed many, and so he can be considered a murderer. How is that illogical?True, I'll give you that.  But I think we can both agree that it  would've been sick to see the dragons in action.That's why I put the e in parantheses. 

It was a joke. 

Because the words sound similar. If you think that burning your own, innocent people alive is the same is killing soldiers on a battlefield or killing enemies I question your moralsTotally. But I think we'll get out fill this year.It's not morals on killing, it's the fact that a killer, either morally right or wrong is still a killer. The definition does not change, how is that hard to understand. Put morals aside, one killed hundreds by dragon fire, one killed hundreds by a sword... What about geothermal? Winterfell is mentioned to be built on hot springs that keep it warm and even allow for the greenhouses to grow food. I also think the baths at Harrenhall were heated by hot springs. The would love to use geothermal similar to Iceland. Can't forget about a major source of energy like that which is already being used in their world. You know - a theory of mine is that the Wall isn't a wall but the remnant of a vast Valyrian mining operation. Your map has prompted me to reminisce on this.Asoiaf and engineering, my two true passions.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*haha =) I have a theory the Wall will last only until there are white walkers because they are winter themselves White Walkers that bring an Ice Dragon to bring the wall down maybe...Also when you look at the fact that there was about 600 male members of that family. Standing together themselves would be like amassing a small army lol. They were said in the last episode of season 6  

and the words are "We stand together"It's actually "We Stand Together". You first hear it last season during the Lannister/Frey feast. Also evident in how Walder acts in regards to ruling - he seems to genuinely keep his kin out of trouble, fuck everyone else, Walders against the world, etc. Unless I'm misremembering. They might not have been said on the show but those have always been their words. Nothing new really. I mean there are dozens of houses we haven't even heard of, let alone those words. But they are detailed in The World of Ice & Fire.I don't know, it always seemed to me like he was pitting his family against each other, at least in the books. It works better on the show though, where all you really get is all these dues in the same hat (brilliant bit of costuming, imo, since they look pretty normal but as soon as you see it you know that's a Frey). They were said last season on the show. The Frey words have yet to be revealed in the book canon. Pretty sure the The World of Ice & Fire, while not a novel, is pretty much canon.I agree, it's absolutely canon. But the words of House Frey aren't in there. They have yet to be revealed in the book canon. They might be the same as the show, they might not.Are you sure? I don't have the book with me at work :P but I am sure they are in there along with the words of tons of minor houses.I'm sure. 

Do we get many new House words in the World Book? There wasn't a side bar or section devoted to them. And there's still a ton of major second-tier houses (Frey, Dayne, Tarth, Blackwood, Bracken, Manderly) that don't have words.Hmm now I am second guessing where I got it from then. Because I know for sure I knew those were the Frey words.[The wiki](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Main_Page) and [the Search of Ice and Fire](https://asearchoficeandfire.com/) are both pretty useful/reliable for stuff like this. I imagine the horrific details of the Red Wedding were spread all throughout Westeros after the fact. Including how they put Greywind's head on Robb's body and how they killed his unborn baby in the womb. We were drinking wine when we saw the opening scene, and I noticed everybody putting down their glasses and looking awkwardly into their glass. 

I loved how we saw Arya's portrayal of Walder Frey and how she mentioned her murdered family before uttering "Leave one wolf alive...and the sheep are never safe".The Freys knew, that is why she was stabbed in the stomach. Arya will have heard it at the feast.Its almost as if she infiltrated that house a long time before taking action to find out all that information, like she has been trained to do...I thought Arya having *all* the details was a bit hokey. But the Freys did know that Talisa was pregnant. That's why they specifically stabbed her in the belly.But she wasn't trained ,her training didn't end.Even if she was ,how did she managed to enter the castle without anyone noticing her or her assassinations?Where did she hide the bodies,where did she get the poison and why weren't there any guards?The red wedding is an extremely famous and very talked about event in the entire country even in essos actually. So it's not a surprise arya didn't here these things in passing, especially at the port in bravos How did they know it?Just because she didn't graduate and got her diploma doesn't mean she learned the tricks. She obviously learned to wear faces. And she did learn the value of infiltration, remember "oysters clams and cockles"? ^the ^north ^remembers ^;)

I don't know exactly the details on the other questions, but its important to remember we don't know exactly how much time passes when. She could have been working on this revenge plot for months, waiting for the right time(s).Wasn't she showing at the wedding already? Even if not she did tell Robb at the wedding, a Frey overhearing it doesn't sound unlikely.Using a Face is likely similar to Warging a beast. A fusion of two minds. The show doesn't really address Arya being a Warg.

Arya was being trained to open herself to the experience by becoming "No One". Putting her Self aside to allow her to take advantage of the shadows of the dead.

Now that she has accepted who she is, the risk is lessened of losing herself in the memories of the faces she wears. In a similar fashion to how they are at risk of losing themselves in their animals.

So when Jaqen or Arya wear another face, they half become that other person. Knowing what they knew, how they talked, their mannerisms, etc.a wizard did it! capiche? Because the script says so. it's gonna happen with Bran too so you better get ready. Bran's arc though is a bit more traditional. Most all fantasy stories feature an arc where a master dies before he can finish training his apprentice, but the apprentice still goes on to become more powerful than his predecessor.

Arya's story doesn't feel as complete though. She's the one at fault for not finishing her training, but she's still going to go on to be some type of murderous nut. It's gonna be weird. I wish she had like a satchel of faces to carry around, but it appears she's gonna have to kill a bunch of people before she can transform. Might make her too predictable in future episodes.How she pulled of the whole Frey thing will forever be a mystery. Infiltrating, baking his family in a pie, killing him, cleaning it up and portraying Walder til the next feast, while acquiring a whole bunch of poison, that nobody notices Walder himself avoids drinking.

She perfectly imitates him in every way, and ends with a cocky, ice cold, coolness that in unfitting her character. It feels more like Dexter to be honest, only we don't get any details of how the operation is accomplished. It is a flaw based on the  "waif conflict" the show writers pursued during the last two years. One of the waif's tasks was to train Arya in poisons and lie detection. Instead of including those scenes, they went with the waif as Ayra's tormentor story line. 



No use crying about what could have been. How did Arya survive multiple fatal stab wounds that were immediately followed by raw sewerage and parkour? A bowl of soup and a good night's sleep?

How did Arya figure out how the face disguise thing worked when she was never shown how? On top of that, how did she figure out *her own unique method of doing it*, because as the OP points out, it's different to how Jaqen does it. How? When? 

Did Arya murder an innocent serving girl at the Twins and steal her face for a disguise? Is that the implication in the S6 finale? Isn't that horribly out of character? She goes out of her way to not hurt the serving girls with her poisoned wine in s7, after all. 

Since when can Arya cook pies the way she does in that same episode? She's constantly berated for being unladylike, and now she can suddenly cook these monster pies? How does she know how to turn two grown men *into* these pies? What kitchen did she use to make these pies where not one person stopped and went "hey, why is this serving lady emptying her bag of severed body parts into a pastry?"

How is it possible that Arya Stark, a little girl with no experience with positions of power or the person she's pretending to be, masqueraded as Walder Frey for 2 whole weeks and no one noticed something was up? To paraphrase CinemaSins, "this is a much better story than the one that is being shown." 

She's in the feasting hall when the drinks are served. Who poisoned the drinks backstage then? For that matter, why would that much poison be available at the Twins in the first place? It looks like the same stuff that is served to Joffrey, the Strangler, which is supposedly quite rare, costly and difficult to procure. Am I meant to believe that there's enough of that stuff on hand to poison an entire room at Arya's whim? 

I don't know wtf is going on with Arya and I don't think the producers know either. Her story has been an absolute clusterfuck ever since she landed in Braavos. It's better not to think too much about it and appreciate the spectacle for what it is - dumb fun with no logical basis. I like to think of seasons 5 and 6 less as stories and more as highlights that detail the '5 year gap' George RR Martin originally wanted to add. It doesn't perfectly fix anything but it does allow me to restore my suspension of disbelief. They were essentially two seasons of intermission between Act I and II.I pretty much just go with "it's magic!" as my answer to things that haven't been explained in the books/show.

I don't think we will have real answers until we get a book.

This is why we need another book! 😢Are you asking us to explain show logic? I feel weird even saying those two words back to back, "show logic", still sounds weird. It doesn't make any sense it's just lazy writing. Her story has become a complete joke. Let's not even talk about her surviving those fatal knife wounds and then the next day running and jumping around.MORE MONTAGE! 😛

🎶Anything that we want to go from just a beginner to a pro,

You need a montage (montage)

Oh it takes a montage (montage) 🎶I really couldn't tell you, it has never made sense to me. In the book she was only just getting started with training before the end of the book so the deeper magic of it has never been explained in an official sense. The entire plot seems botched to me as do several other plotlines the writers have taken liberties with. Lack of source material has them springing to their TV writing tricks and it shows.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*I feel like it's so many problems with the plots logic, that really started in season 5. This episode was not an improvement in that regard, but the hype-curve needs to die down before reddit accepts honest conversations about them.Man, your comment hurts. But I gotta agree. Arya is one of my favourite characters but her show storyline has become pretty ridiculous. They kinda wasted valuable time with her over in Braavos where she learned.. well, not really much. Sure, the show tells us that she became a bad ass assassin but they never showed us how. We saw her arriving in Braavos, we saw her fleeing. We saw her doing training during her time over there, but all those scenes really don't fit the outcome since she's back in Westeros.

The worst part is that this kind of illogical writing takes away almost all the emotional impact of her killing Walder and the Freys. Was it cool? Hell yeah. Did it feel earned? Not really. There's no lead up to it, no scheming and no planning. I mean, I'm glad that she got her revenge and I'm not surprised that they took the easy route on this, but man, this didn't feel sweet at all to me. I was singing that song for the whole Sam scene. If anything broke 'immersion', it was that and not Ed Sheeran. It's too bad Sam's montage made him good at toilet scrubbing and not giving me the exposition I've been waiting a year for. I wanna know what's in those books.Beric will bring back SansaI think Beric will pass it on to Sandor instead of KAT. So when him and The Mountain finally meet they will be on somewhat equal ground. My idea is it has to do with the show's version of Lightbringer and Azor Ahai. Though i don't believe they've  mentioned either by those names, they've certainly been introduced and referenced several times each. We know that both Jon and Beric will both be North of The Wall and there have been parallels drawn to Jon being The Last Hero, both derived from the trailers. To sum up, Beric is there to either give Jon a flaming sword or make Longclaw a flaming sword. Might sound simple but I feel
as the points of this story get closer and closer it seems to become easier to connect the dots Why are we assuming that there is a purpose, or that there's really some divine power behind it?  I think GRRM has said something along the lines of "none of the gods are any more real than the others," so maybe it's just blood magic all the way down?  Maybe if you know the right words to say and give up something it just works?He's a vessel to explain Azor Ahai to non-book readers.>  but I think it's generally accepted that he doesn't have any extraordinary military prowess. 

So says the Hound.

> In the books, we get an answer, to some extent, in that it was Beric that brought back Lady Stoneheart, aka zombie-cat. 

And us book readers are still wondering why she came back.  GRRM recently revealed that he was disappointed that she wasn't in the show, and it sounded like she clearly had a role to play.  If BD is brought back simply so he can bring back Lady Stoneheart, so that she could then go on to do something else...well...it stands to reason that BD is going to now fulfill her role in the show.Perhaps he exists as a way to teach the Hound about this dynamic of keeping the dead alive, to the point that they are both gravely wounded at Eastwatch and Beric tells the red priest to bring back Sandor Clegane instead of himself. 

Through this experience, Sandor Clegane learns the way to reach the summit of The Mountain.Well, he has a fire sword and there are tons of ice zombies on their way. Maybe he'll sacrifice himself to kill an ice dragon."Will he give the breath of life to someone besides Cat at just the right moment?"

Lord Wun-heart.Beric's Sigil - the Dondarrion Sigil - Is a Black Field with a purple zig zagging lightning bolt.

The Nights Watch's Sigil - on the other hand - is a purely Black Field.

Additionally, the switchback stair of the Wall at Castle Black is described as similar in shape to a lightning bolt.

So, it appears that the Dondarrion may have in fact had some for of ancestral link to the Wall and Castle Black.I think that storyline of "bringing Lady Stoneheart back" will be given to Jon to some extent. I think while they're up there battling the WW's, Jon will die and Beric will give his life to save Jon's with the kiss of life.  I think we all agree that to add value to Beric's life and gift, Thoros has to die. But it seems as though they are setting up Sandor to receive that gift. Perhaps Sandor will be the next Thoros?I don't know, but I'd love to see it have something to do with Bran and his visions. I feel like they could all connect. I like the idea of all of the gods in the series actually being a singular god, and that maybe it's Bran. He's showing people integral to the future of the realm the things they need to see, and Beric and Thoros have plenty to do with that (being big fire binge-watchers and all). Thoros and Beric are a package deal, which is why I think they're both still in the show, not to mention they're a writer's dream to draw out some great banter with Sandor.I don't know what his purpose is, but I think it's worthwhile to consider that *everything* he does may be controlled by the god.  Did they really *coincidentally* wind up at an inn The Hound robbed, sleeping in the same room as the bodies of two people he killed?  

Being in that place at that time led to a transformative moment for Sandor *and* a vision in the fire. Whether Beric was conscious of leading The Hound to that moment or not, I think the red god knew what he was doing. 

It's possible that many things Beric does are part of some endgame, whether he knows it or not. The game pieces you move around a chess board don't know your strategy, after all. Dondarrion may be a genius, or a plastic rook in the band of a god...but where he's going, where he's stopping for the night, who he's killing and who he's offering a drink to could all be setting something up.  

Last night, he set up The Hound's vision and his moment of conscience. He's going to die permanently so that another character can be resurrected. Just like on the books, except it won't be Cat. I think this was foreshadowed when Clegane said that if there was such a thing as divine justice he'd be dead and the girl would be alive. Yeah I think Beric is likely going to pass along the 'kiss of life' he keeps receiving. This is what he did in the books, waking Lady Stoneheart, and so I think he's going to be doing the same sort of thing here. 

That, or he is going to simply sacrifice his life for somebody else to survive, like making a last stand to allow someone *cough* Jon *cough* to escape the Others

Either way, I imagine first Thoros is going to die, and then Beric will give up his last life for someone more plot-centric in the North. It can't just be to be another person championing the fight with the Others. I still think we might see the last kiss. Beric is Punished Snake of WesterosMy guess is that Beric's purpose in the show will be to fight the White Walkers and the Army of the Dead. I don't know if that is in the last season's endgame fight or what appears to be a battle near the end of this season, the one where Beric ignites his sword.

I also hope that Beric interacts with Jon. That would give the show a way to better show Jon dealing with being resurrected from death, which has been completely overlooked in the show and will have serious ramifications in the books.Beric's purpose in the show was to set up Jon's resurrection in my opinion. Just so people knew it was possible. I don't think he really has a purpose now. I think he's just a champion sent down by the Lord of Light to help fight the Others, and he'll die in what looks like from the trailer a battle beyond the Wall.

Maybe he'll give his life to resurrect Jon again? Or maybe even Sandor?... I dunno.   
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*That's a really good idea.*crosses fingers*From *The Hedge Knight*:

> The Dondarrion line was founded when a messenger from the Storm King was ambushed by two Dornishmen while riding on a stormy night. An arrow killed his horse and his sword broke when he fell. When he thought he was doomed, a bright purple lightning bolt struck the Dornishmen, killing both. The man was thus able to deliver his crucial message on time. For this, the Storm King raised him to lordship, and he became the first Dondarrion.

http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/House_Dondarrioni believe him and thoros have been watching clegane for awhile now. i dont think it was coincidence. we also dont know how clegane survived... he just ends up working for the brotherhood... in some way, possibly he was resurrected I definitely like this idea.  Not only is it logical, but it also relates back to Melisandre's story and how we saw that play out.  While the Red God made her believe that Stannis was the one true king, AA, etc., and had her do sometimes heinous things, she believed she was doing it at the behest of her god.  In the end, though, it appears her purpose was to be at the wall when Jon needed her.  The Red God, like in most mythology, used her as a means to an end: keep Jon Snow alive.  That she didn't know her true purpose until then didn't really matter to her god.  

In other words, while Beric's story isn't clear to him or us, we'll realize it when we see it, and he's already accomplished some goals (getting Sandor invested).  I don't believe it will be to bring Jon back again, but maybe to use the kiss on someone else?  Calling it now. Beric revives Sandor, revived Sandor goes to Kings Landing to fight undead Gregor.

Get. Hype.Arya Stoneheart.  Arya gets betrayed and killed by Lannister pop singer, Hound and Beric stumble across her corpse in the Riverlands, Hound (intentionally or not) convinces Beric to sacrifice himself to resurrect her.

This makes "you'd be dead and the girl would be alive" foreshadowing in S7E1 works perfectly.  

Hound and Arya are together again, except their roles are reversed; this time Hound is the virtuous one and Arya is the merciless murderous monster.And the sweet irony of him dying to the white walkers is that he is likely to be raised one more time after that as well. Why are we still here? Just to suffer?*Thoros...I'm already a demon.*If you see the trailers it looks very much like we get an all star team of Jon, Tormund, Beric, Thoros, Sandor, Pod, and I'm sure others in either a ranging or a mission in the north > Beric's purpose in the show was to set up Jon's resurrection in my opinion.

so why would they tease his purpose season later?He's gonna resurrect Sandor into a fire wight, so we have another level of themes in CLEGANEBOWL. Came here to say this. Kinda like the Arya idea (as above) but she's already vengeance, and if she got all stonehearty, what? Is she just gonna double down on the vengeance. I think there's a good chance he'll pass it into Sandor as a little bowl pregame. Oh, man. That hadn't occurred to me. That would be one hell of a reveal. 

Why'd he bring me back, Clegane? I have no idea. I could ask you the same. could it have something to do with Eastwatch being by the sea? so if he resurrects Jon, Jon can be reborn amidst salt and smoke?Cant. Sandor will accompany jon going north in the final battle that ends winterInteresting.  Both Clegane boys are undead for CLEGANEBOWL.   There's a nice symmetry to that.

How does Sandor die though?  They also made a point in S7E1 shifting his focus to the North.  What makes him shift back South to King's Landing?  If he's going to die, it needs to be soon before he gets much further North.negative, he will resurrect Sansa and she will become LSHWhat is hype may never die. I know they are headed opposite directions but I do feel you are on the right track. Except hound will be the one to sacrifice his life to bring Arya back, mark my words. Agreed. And since Mel still has to meet Arya, she will be the one to resurrect her. I could see that happening but only after Jon Nissa Nissa's her. Ill be pissed if Arya gets chumped by eddie fucjin sheeran. But...the Brotherhood is headed North and Arya is headed south.I want this. But Arya MUST meet Nymeria first. It is knownBUDDY COMEDY!

Burned man and Zombie Girl go a murderin'plz let bronn and edd join that list plzI think Thoros will die beyond the wall, them Sandor will die too. As Beric fights the white walkers, he looks at his sword, which is cathing fire, adn them he realizes the purpose of his live is give his lat life (Last kiss) to Sandor. Them he'll die for good and Sandor will live. What is hype may never die.I'm not sure if I think the entirety of season 8 will be in the North though. Unless  the White Walkers go further South than the wall like we're expecting.After being revived, something changes in him. He realizes the only amount of fun he ever had was traveling with Arya. With that revelation, he abandons the North and travels back to Kings Landing to find Arya again, and there, he meets his brother for a fated duel that will be sung about for centuries.If Sansa dies, can she just stay dead please?But then take revenge on who?  The Freys are already dead and in the books they were the main target of LSHHOTPIE RETURN???That seems reasonable, but then what happens to Beric?> and Arya is headed south

For now.  Obviously, she is not going to kill Cersei this early on and she is likely to hear *somewhere* that her family retook Winterfell.  Maybe she runs into Melisandre, the Brotherhood (not the main group - think Anguy), Gendry, or Hot Pie for all I know, but I think she changes her mind and heads north.  

It would be such a writing fail if she never hears about her brother being King in the North with Sansa chillin there too.  Bonus shit-writing points if she does not go to meet up with them after hearing the Lannister soldiers longing for their homes and families.True, they intend to head in opposite directions, but aren't they both in the Riverlands at the moment?  Nymeria could lead Sandor & Beric to Arya's corpse.  This would solve the problem of Sandor/Beric & Arya not currently being in the same part of the Riverlands as well.I SAW IT TOO! It's happening! They'd better not be bringing Nymeria back just to kill her :("Oh here I go murderin' again!"Idk bronn but gendry seems really likely. There were rumours that jon goes north to get a wight to show dany/cersei but that seems farfetched, they're paralleling AA who brought 11 friends a horse and a dog to fight the others and they all died. It'd be lame if they all die just getting a wightbut then who will eat all the lemoncakes?Littlefinger? He has been fucking with her one way or another for 3 seasons now...i dunno you could make that argument for any character. >or ~~Hot Pie~~ Moonboy for all I know

ftfyGood point on Melisandre, when they meet in season 3 (4?) she says that they will meet again.. although I'm not sure what purpose it could have at this point.

I'm curious overall what Melisandre's next play is, is she going to find Dany? Or maybe the brotherhood? Just looking at the weather, Arya seems to be further south.That was the thought.

But there was a lot of snow where the Brotherhood was camped out, and seemingly none where Arya was...Perhaps they're at the north end of the RL and she's way towards the south.That's the Last Hero. Not necessarily the same as AA.Bronn would say "fuck no" and go as far South as South goes, grab a pint (and a whore), and wait for all this to blow over.Lack of lemoncakes certainly explains why she's such an insufferable brat.She just left the Twins, which is near to the Neck.The homestead the brotherhood were staying at is in the foothills of the Mountains of the Moon, I believe, while Arya is in the Riverlands. The elevation difference could explain the weather.Good point about the snow.

The house that the Brotherhood camped out in is somewhere between the Twins and the Eyrie (that's where Sandor and Arya stopped to rest in season 4 when Sandor was bringing Arya to the Vale to ransom her off.  The Eyrie is almost due East of the Twins but in the moutains, so the snow is from being at higher elevation rather than further North.  Regardless, this puts Sandor, Beric, and his merry men significantly East of Arya's current location.  

If Sandor's vision makes Beric and co decide they need to head West out of the mountains to get to Kingsroad in order to travel North faster, that would potentially put them on a collision course with Arya.  But that's definitely a stretch.

All that said, the show has a track record of putting characters where they need to be to advance the plot, ignoring the geography of The Known World a bit when it suits themIn the show hes been north of the wall i thinkI thought I was the only one who didn't like Sansa. I mean, after all she has been through, you feel bad for her, but now she is back to season 1 Sansa thinking she is smarter than everyone.Ah, that explains it.  They're going to Gulltown probably, to catch a ship to Eastwatch.  Maybe cross paths with Jon there, and the Hound decides to accompany him to Cleganebowl.She even says Jon is a good ruler, multiple times. She doesn't understand that Cersei's ruthlessness means absolutely nothing to the white walkers.Well, obsidian is liquid between 920C and 1080C degrees. Steel is liquid at 1400C. If we assume valyrian steel is made via crucible method, the obsidian could be crushed and placed with the iron / iron ore, with some carbon containing stuff (bone, wood - maybe dragon bone, wool). You would then heat it to 1400C with dragon fire and slowly cool it.

[The end result would look like this.](http://www.northshoreforge.com/page2/photos-3/photos-7/files/page10-1000-full.jpg) It was actually made in history (using normal glass, not volcanic glass / obsidian / dragon glass) and we modernly call it wootz or crucible steel. It fits GRR Martins' description of being smokey and swirly. It's also harder than medieval steels, and quite durable.

[I have a video on the metallurgy of this actually](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wlMIMCFK6OM.

I'll honestly be a bit disappointed if valyrian steel isn't a crucible steel using obsidian as a glass source, because that could totally work. I might try it myself.Well, it would make sense that it would be made of iron and dragonglass given the "white walker-killing" properties of both.

But the question is, how did they forge good steel with it, isn't dragonglass described as brittle? (correct me if I'm wrong)This theory is widely discussed on this sub, personally I agree - Valyrian Steel is infused with Dragonglass. IIRC, the historical inspiration is Damascus steel, but I guess Wootz steel might be a viable candidate as well. 

As /u/grumking_snark pointed out, it is the process that is lost. In the books, I think there are five blacksmiths who know how to rework VS, one of whom is Tobbho Mott, Gendry's former master. My guess is an alloy of steel and dragonglass, forged with dragon fire and/or some kind of fire magic. The sword is described as metal being forged by dragon fire and embedded with magic. I think the ripples in it make one think of fire. We know that actual fire is not a weapon against the White Walkers. However, dragon flame is a different element in this world. It is magic in many ways and therefore a counter to ice.I think this is a very apt suggestion. I can't remember where but at some point someone mentions that dragonglass is brittle so fusing it with steel by the way of magic/dragon fire would make sense. 

Edit; Also descriptions of valyrian steel paint it as a dark grey metal which again seems logical given that dragonglass is darkThe books don't say the (raw) metal itself is anything special, but that it's *process* was, in that the steel was forged with dragonfire, magic spells, and a technique (much like our real world Damascus steel) that has been lost over time. It's the spells that make it very difficult to rework, not the steel.

I suppose it's possible it was some special alloy, but there's not really any hard indications so far that that's the case. My presumption has always been that the magic cancels out whatever magic makes the Others who they are, and it's the dragonfire that allows the blades to kill them.I like your thinking. It would have to be forged with dragonfire in order to melt it, but that would be a kick-ass WW slaying alloy for sure. I hope the secret of Valyrian steel gets revealed this season or in TWoWWow I'm genuinely glad someone with good understanding of metallurgy could give his input on this subject.

As you may have seen, my initial inspiration was indeed wootz steel. 

As for the carbon containing element, we see tywin place the carcass of a goat on the red hot metal which may have also had some magical reasons? I'm not sureCarbon, brittle as it is in its pure form, alloys with iron to form steel which is more flexible and strong so it can't be said beforehand.Steel itself is an alloy of iron. All alloys composed mainly of iron are called steel>My presumption has always been that the magic cancels out whatever magic makes the Others who they are, and it's the dragonfire that allows the blades to kill them.

That's a good point, well put.

Fire is one thing, Wildfire is another, *and Dragonfire is something entirely different.*
My theory is more scientific in nature but considering asoiaf is mostly fantasy, the Dragonfire surely might've been an important component though it's not required to reforge itGoats contain bones. Bones are a usable carbon source.fair point.Thanks for the clarification, but i'm aware of that. Alloys between alloys and other materials are still alloys. In fact, only alloys with Iron and at most 2.1% of Carbon are called Steel. Yes i know that but I was thinking if it signifies a sacrifice of sorts as wellVery well.

But let us not deviate from the main point we're dealing with here i.e. dragonglass. It kinda resembles graphite if it wasn't crystal-like in appearanceYeah, naturally. My mind just always defaults to less supernatural explanations, because I have never personally met a dragon, sadly.I had to read this whole comment chain probably eight times before figuring out what it even is that was being disputed here.

It appears that the first sticking point is whether whether we are alloying *iron* with dragonglass as /u/RexGalilae says, or alloying *steel* with dragonglass as /u/franfrant says. Either way, pedantry. You can both be right. 

As you both already discussed, in the real world, steel itself is an alloy of carbon and iron. At the same time, steel can also be alloyed with additional materials, in which case it is called [alloy steel](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Alloy_steel). 

The second sticking point appears to be whether dragonglass *replaces* carbon in the alloying process of creating VS, or is a material in *addition* to the carbon.. but who cares? 

You clearly both agree that iron and dragonglass are essential components of VS, so if carbon is an ingredient or it isn't.. who cares?Hehe. My initial mindset was purely scientific but some of the people here have opened my eyes to the fact that magic would also have been playing a role in westerosi metallurgyMy last comment on this thread stated that very point. The essential component is dragonglass and that could as well be trueHaha, no big deal. 

To be clear, i stand by the iron+carbon+dragonglass option, so steel+dragonglass but with the dragons involved somehow in the process.

But it's all speculation, so...Just to stir up the pot; Euron is *also* a little brother. 

A little brother who is an absolute psychopath and an eye for Cersei's throne. The term "valonqar" is not gender neutral. GRRM in the books makes no statements about the grammatical gender of High Valyrian, which is different from the gender of people. 

The term for "prince" *does not* have a specified gender, translating roughly to something like heir. 

Linguist and creator of the languages for the show, [David Peterson, talks about this in his blog](http://www.dothraki.com/2013/04/qilonario-geron/), and GRRM trusts Peterson enough to ask for Peterson to translate lines for him in upcoming books. 

> Many have taken this quote as evidence that High Valyrian is a language without grammatical gender (and for those who are as baffled by that interpretation as I was, I swear, it’s true! Go to the forums and ask around). This quote proves nothing of the kind.
> 
> First, what Maester Aemon is talking about here is not *grammatical* gender but *biological* gender. In our own world, there are animals that can actually change their gender from male to female, or vice versa (see, for example, the clownfish). Often this happens to aid reproduction. Presumably, dragons in the universe of Ice and Fire are the same—that is, dragons that are, at the moment, male or female, will switch to another gender if it’s required for some reason (this has yet to be revealed).
> 
> The part where language comes into this is that the prophecy referred to is originally delivered in High Valyrian, and it refers to a prince. The *translation* he’s talking about, though, is the translation to Common (i.e. English) which uses the word “prince”, which is male. The assumption, then, was that if that translation caused confusion, **it’s because the High Valyrian word can refer to either gender, and, as a result, High Valyrian is genderless.**
> 
> Not so. **First, *grammatical* gender need not be tied to *biological* gender (and, indeed, High Valyrian’s genders are not).** Second, think for a moment. English is a gender neutral language. We have gendered third person singular pronouns, but outside of that, English has no grammatical genders the way Spanish, French and Italian do. “Prince” is *grammatically* gender neutral. *Semantically*, though, it’s male, just as the words “man”, “bachelor”, “father” and “son” are. That these words exist says nothing about the grammatical gender system of English.
> 
> So, all this says about High Valyrian is that the word originally used in the prophecy that was translated as “prince” in Common (i.e. English) can refer to either gender (e.g. the way “scientist” can refer to either gender in English). Maester Aemon, here, is commenting on how the assumption, given the context, was that the one prophesied must be male, because this is something that is presumably common in Westeros society (kind of like it still is in ours. Take a random sampling of 100 people and see how many *still* first think of a man when they hear the word “scientist”)—but, crucially, that it need not be so. That is all this quote is evidence of; it says nothing whatever about the gender system of High Valyrian.

**tl;dr** Valonqar only means "little brother" It would be a bit weird if the witch lady specified the killer being a younger sibling if they weren't Cersei's younger sibling. Why even specify that? There are quite a lot of younger siblings in Westeros.I'm almost wondering how the face game works, but could it be possible ayra as one of her dead children? I agree that valonqar only means little brother, but even without all that mess, it's still clear the valonqar is male.

>"Gold shall be their crowns and gold their shrouds," she said. "And when your tears have drowned you, the valonqar shall wrap **his** hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you."An interesting theory I heard was that it will be a "second son" since that fits the definition I've always thought of it as the younger brother of her children, since the prophecy was an answer to a question only about her having children. 

In short: Arya using Tommens face to get near enough to her to strangle her. Wow I want to see that so badly now. They were vaporized , so no. Other than tommen, who went splat.That would be dark.I agree with you and really, really want what you've bolded to suffice, but I see arguments raised that it does not because of the misinterpretation of "prince" and use of male pronouns for that.So do the faceless man need the physical face they use? Like does ayra just carry a bag full of faces now That would be beautifully poetic - her meddling got her kids killed, her kids then kill her. I feel like that argument would only make sense if Cersei got her definition from the same person as she did the word, which she didn't.

Even if valyrian pronouns and nouns and everything are interchangeable, the common ones are not. If valonqar was commonly gender neutral, the frog likely would have said "their hands", rather than the specific common-tongue pronoun meaning male. That's a good point . I'm not a hundred percent sure how it works. NoBeric would have been too young to be at Harrenhal (he's aged up in the show). He first met the Hound at the Hands Tourney in season 1/ AGOT. The Hound would have met Thoros at the end of the Greyjoy rebellion as Thoros helped put down the rebellion.He was referring to the Tourney of the Hand. Beric would only have been about four years old at Harrenhal.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Oops my bad, thanks for clearing that up!I think it will be Elaria Sand. She killed Mycella and is in open rebellion to the crown. Maybe Yara\Asha too, I saw her and Elerai kiss in the preview for next week, maybe it's suicide via poison to avoid the torture Cersei has in mind. I really want it to be the "horn that summons Krakens from the deep" but I don't think the show is going to dive that deep. 

I think he is implying Tyrion.He meant Tyrion. In season 5, he was a gift to Dany.Will be a victory over Dany - capturing/killing some of her allies (Sand Snakes?)Euron's gift are poisoned.The only gift that would matter anything to Cersei would be Tyrion's head on a spike.I believe that Euron could possibly have Brightroar and Gerion in the books, and that he's cut out Gerion's tongue and made him a crew member on The Silence. But I think show Euron is going to give Cersei the Sand Snakes and Ellaria. and thus weak writing will never ruin Dorne again!just ask VictarionLast season they brought up Valyrian steel and made kind of a big deal about Sam stealing Heartsbane. So there's some merit to it at least.["That was a poisoned gift? Sign me up for another."](https://youtu.be/enOHraf3LEk?t=39s) -Victarion I think it will be interesting to see Sansa learn how to use a sword. She was always dreaming about knights and warriors and now she'll instead need to learn how to be one. > Robb could have just married that Frey girl 


Robb was doomed the moment he couldn't convince his lords not to remain in the 7 Kingdoms, I'm talking doomed in the long term someone would have won the war for the Iron Throne and even the most lenient (Renly) would not have accepted a independent North and Riverlards.


Even if would have taken years whoever sits the Iron Throne will raise his armies again and swarm all over Robb's holdings, the Riverlands were never defensible and the North never took on all the other kingdoms at once.


The best outcome for Robb in terms of getting revenge for Ned, protecting his familly, protecting his lands was not as a king but as a powerful Lord leveraging his armies to support a candidate for the Iron Throne and then using his power as a kingmaker to get revenge etc.I strongly disagree with 2. Robb didn't marry that Frey girl because he didn't want to let Jeyne raise the child alone, as he had saw how the world and even his own mother treated bastards. There were more reasons to his death than just this too. Not to mention many other characters have done far worse but suffered no consequence (in the show, I'll have to wait for George for the "true resolution" I guess).Ned was not stupid.

He was a fantastic ruler in the North, you can't do that by being stupid. Unfortunately the games in KL were played by totally different rules, and Ned had no time to adjust.

Say let's parachute Clovis on the throne of Constantinople during the outbreak of a political crisis, and let's give him no one whom he could trust, how many days do you think Clovis can survive? Does that make Clovis stupid too?You must be blind and deaf to think this is the first time Sansa showed any hint of cleverness.I really don't understand that amount of Sansa hate in this subI think the interactions between Sansa and Jon were very good this episode, because for the first time in a while it wasn't one of them being stupid and the other obviously right. They both had good arguments, went back and forth, and it showed that they are stronger if they work together and listen to each other. Jon will have to find a middle ground between Ned -honorable but naive and sometimes foolish- and Cersei/Littlefinger -cunning, end justifies the means sometimes. I've seen people argue that Sansa is becoming Cersei because she said she'd learnt a lot from her, but I disagree. Jon is realising Sansa can help him and Sansa will take the useful things from what she learned and philter out the bad. Sansa was being incredibly difficult this episode. Her objections to Jon should've been voiced in private prior to the meeting, not in public. It ensured that in no way would Jon listen to her or be forever mocked as not truly being in charge.

Then there was her getting mad at Jon that he wasn't focusing on Cersei when he really shouldn't. Cersei would never to be able to march North, she has not enough men or food to do that in the Summer time, and now Winter is here it would be impossible to besiege the North.I remember when I read the book long before the show caught up thinking how stupid Rob was for marrying someone else. 

All the scenes with Cat thinking to herself how foolish he was, the girl distracting him, the situation with how he handled Karstark. 

The red wedding still caught me by surprise. I remember I had to reread the sentence a few times when it happened, something like "the bolt caught him in the chest" or a bolt sprouted from rob's chest. It was like I saw it coming, but didn't see it coming at the same time hehe. 

Rob also felt much smaller in the books then he did in the show. Still a shocker tho. She's a talker, see how many stupid mistakes she's made along the way. It's hypocritical of her to call others stupid. And funny how she brought up Robb and told Jon not to be like him when Jon did the opposite of what Robb did with the Karstarks which earned him their betrayal.My favorite part was her telling LF off and acknowledging he only needs him for his army.

I had and still kind of have fears LF will play Jon and Sansa against each other. I truly hope that is not something that happen.Yeah, but questioning Jon in front of all subjects showed how stupid she still is and how she's actually learned nothing from her 'masters' (Cersei, Ramsay and Littlefinger). Ned wasn't stupid exactly. He only died because sansa betrayed her family to cersei. She wanted to say "And you were stupid too, Jon. You did exactly what Ramsey wanted, and I hadn't saved the day you'd be with Robb and father now".I agree.

But I also agree with Jon, Sansa was wrong.

Ned knew how to make allies, Cercei knew how to destroy her enemies.

Now contrast the positions of the two.  Cercei is utterly without allies, and Jon is surrounded by loyal houses.

And punishing the family of someone because what their father did is EXACTLY what Cercei/Joffrey did to Sansa.  And now she turned around and wanted to do the same thing to someone else.Props to the writers for Jon and Sansa having a logical, civilized, intelligent conversation about what's going on. So many shows (most shows) I find myself yelling at the tv "JUST TELL HIM....", "JUST EXPLAIN TO HER WHY...." Seriously most dramas on television rely on characters not just having logical and obvious conversations in order to push conflict and let the drama in the show pop off. It's very fake and frustrating (I'm looking at you Walking Dead!)I'm really rooting for Jon in all this but yeah Sansa made good points.Cersei also apparently taught her how to style her hair...
Sansa "you don't know them like I do"
Jon "ok,so tell me"
Sansa: "I don't know, but you don't know how they think"

Sansa is the most useless Stark in 10000 years....She didn't point out how important mercy is.  The Karstarks would have remained loyal had Robb just sent the two heads to take the Black.She'll be a great counselor for her future husband, Littlefinger.I don't think Ned was stupid, only Robb. 

A lot of the ideas Ned wanted to impleted were always rejected by Robert, if Ned was King, the Lannister and the Westerlands would have been destroyed.

Robb is an idiot because he was King, was able to make all the decisions, and still messed it up.

Ned literally was hoping for the entire realm to fight the Westerlands, its not his fault that Robert was Tywin's bitch. Things would have been very different if Ned was a King.

>This was the boy he had grown up with, he thought; this was the Robert Baratheon he'd known and loved. If he could prove that the Lannisters were behind the attack on Bran, prove that they had murdered Jon Arryn, this man would listen. Then Cersei would fall, and the Kingslayer with her, and if Lord Tywin dared to rouse the west, Robert would smash him as he had smashed Rhaegar Targaryen on the Trident. He could see it all so clearly.
Except for saying that they should remove the karstarks and umbers from karhold and last hearth a move that would've destabilised and greatly unrest key regions that they need to defend the north from the northSansa is going to side with Littlefinger and become the final opponent somehow. Jon keeps rejecting her and she will take it personally. This is the fall of Sansa.Bronze yohn is here due to blackmail from Peter and Robin, and all the other Lords are closer to him than Petyr, and sansa can manipulate Robin, so they just need to force little finger into a crime, so Jon executes him. 1. Sansa is playing the game of thrones, where you win or die. Ned never wanted to play the game, life is not a game to him, especially after watching his sister die from the last war for the iron throne. 
2. Jon is preparing for the long night and for the dead that come with it; if he fails everyone dies. He doesn't care about the iron throne or the south. He cares about ensuring the survival of humans. 
3. Jon's mission is more important to Westros than who sits the iron throne. Sansa obviously doesn't understand the magnitude of the long night. 
I was so pissed when she called Ned stupid after she was the one who told Cercei Ned was sending her and Arya out of Kings Landing.I hated Sansa and Jaime. Now I like them. Sansa just took a little bit longer to get there. 

I really like Jon Snow, but he's starting to get boring. Tyrion is still awesome though. I don't think it's fully dawned on Sansa that she warned Cersei that her father was about to escape King's Landing and take them to safety. I think she's definitely a bit of Cersei light. She's grown up around Cersei, and she's been through a lot since the beginning of the story. She's no longer a wide-eyed princess with dreams of marrying the king and becoming queen. Like Cersei, she's learned the world is cruel to little girls. However, like Cersei, she isn't as clever as she thinks she is. Even though she's wised up and is fully aware of what Baelish intends for her, etc... her attempts to be clever and restore her house are going to get a lot of people killed.Im waiting for littlefinger to betray Sansa. I know he says he wants to be king with her as his queen, but its so upfront i dont know what to make of it.

And Sansa is terrible at playing the game. The way she dissmisses littlefingers advances are shortsighted. If she knew what she was doing shed play along and be flirty and get lf to support whatever plans she needs done.She made little sense though in  
  
first: Proposing to rid the Karstarks and Umbers of their ancestral homes. There is no reason to already make enemies again with the WW on your doorstep.  
  
second: Not talking to Jon *beforehand* and instead undemining his decision in front of everyone. Jon's right, that is just shortsighted.She realizes that Ned always acted or made decisions based on honor making them VERY predictable. Jon is following that same path and someone like Littlefinger will easily take advantage of that.And where is Sweet Robyn in all this? Shouldn't he be at these types of councils? It just seemed ironic to me. One of Ned's biggest mistakes was telling Sansa his plan. She immediately ran back and told Cersei, tipping the balance of power in favor of the Lannisters, and inadvertently getting her father killed. 

She lied to protect Joffrey, got her own Direwolf killed, and who knows what could have happened to Arya. 

Then she acts like she's some great mastermind, and Jon needs to heed her advice. She begins undermining him in front of all the lords, against putting one of her family members in grave danger by sewing the seeds of discontent among the lords of the North. 

That scene made me so angry because it showed that Sansa has learned absolutely -nothing- and in fact sort of regressed as a character. I just don't understand how Ned was stupid. The only stupid thing he did was tell Cersei that he knows what he knows, and she didn't even know that happened. The only reason they didn't get home on time was because she told Cersei they were leaving... 

But Ned put his honor aside, confessed to his 'crimes' and was still put to death. So, I'm actually disappointed that she called her father stupid, when it had nothing to do with Ned being stupid, but rather with Joffrey being evil.What exactly is there to learn from Cersei? She's a horrible selfish vindictive person who has driven away or killed all her allies, even those among her own family, and the only reason she isn't dead yet is because the writers have a throbbing erection for her character.Ned is just a man who misunderstood Cerseis character. He did not warn her out of simple stupidity. He warns her because he is haunted by the Targaryen childrens deaths. He acts more out of compassion than stupitidy or blind honour. He thought Cersei would flee...how could he know that Roberts death was already planned?  I agree trusting Littlefinger was wrong but Littlefinger helped him find out the truth and he helped Cat into the city. I think he had reasons for trusting Littlefinger.

And Robb did not loose because of the Frey girl. That was only the last straw. He already lost when they put a crown on his head.I think it seems pretty clear sansa will marry littlefinger.  The same way rob should have married the Frey girl.She can play the Game. I just hope she continues to do it the right way (if there is a right way).I still don't like Sanaa's character. She acts as if she knows so much more than Jon Snow, but so far her advise (though well-meaning) has been inadequate, and the whole thing about her dad dying due to *his* fault is bullshit because, as I recall, it was actually *her* fault Ned was imprisoned (running to Cersei, 'member?)

Actually, it was mostly her remark on Ned's death that irked me. Then she claims she admires Cersei despite seeing, first hand, that she couldn't even control her son!

It's as if she's learned nothing, but since everyone tells her she has, she believes them. She's *literally* Cersei Stark.I wonder if Sansa remembers that her telling Cersei that Ned planned on having Arya and Sansa shipped back to Winterfell was one of the biggest reasons Ned failed in King's Landing...I very strongly disagreed that Ned was stupid and got himself killed. In fact Sansa killed Ned more than Ned killed Ned and I want Sansa to face the facts and suffer for it. 
changed and edited. I was too mean. I think it shows just how warped she's become;  she is a reflection of her victimizers-- a walking mess of Stockholm Syndrome mixed with learning at the whip-end of the Westerosi Sociopath All-Stars.  [removed]Sansa would make a heck of a hand of the king....Robb and Ned were stupid, but not as stupid as her. Going to the queen and telling her Ned's plan to leave was one of the stupidest things anyone has done in the series. All because she loved Joffrey sooo much.The showrunners did a good job of balancing the conversation/argument between the two this episode. Jon definitely made the right call, and Sansa ultimately/begrudgingly agrees. But I think he also understands that hearing all viewpoints first BEFORE making a decision is valuable to him once more not becoming a pincushion. Overall, I think the dynamic is good, and Sansa and Davos are great dual advisors to Jon if Jon can keep those convos in private. I forget the exact quote, but it reminded me of Jorah telling Dany that 'Rhaegar fought bravely, Rhaegar fought honorably, and Rhaegar died.' I think Sansa is trying to have  a similar effect. She wants Jon to be smarter and more political than Rob and Ned are. The point isn't that she is better than them or anything, She just wants Jon to be as good of a leader as he can be.Well I know when I play Crusader Kings I sure as shit reward leal service and punish traitors. If you do not take them out root and stem they will return -- for their sons have the same traitorous claims on my rightful land, or they are mad that I "murdered their family" or whatever other lame reason to be mad at someone for. 

Don't worry though GoT is just about ~~tits and~~ dragons and ice zombies and won't have much scheming anymore, which is sad, because if little Ned Umber pulled an Olly on Jon it would be glorious. >ed and Robb were brave , but yet stupid

I don't think stupid was the right word she used.  It was honor that killed them more than their stupidity.OP your forgetting the rules! We are all supposed to circle jerk hate on Sansa at all times. Please re read the handbook. Didn't Sansa reveal to cersei Ned's plan, which ultimately resulted in Ned's death? And Sansa has zero self reflection on her mistake, only the mistakes of others.[deleted]Robb should have married the Frey girl anyway. He was a king so he could have set up Jeyne with a marriage to preserve her dignity and if he impregnated her he could have legitimized the kid or at least given it a good life. There were rumors of Ned and Ashara being in love but he married Catelyn anyway. Robb should have done the same with the Freys. She'd rather pick someone beside Cercei as her teacher. Every single player in KL beside Ned outplayed her and every single scheme (beside blowing sept, for some unknown reason) backfired on herIt was interesting to hear Sansa admit she learned a lot from Cersei. Especially when she also told Brienne she knows exactly what Baelish wants. I remember one of the things Cersei directly taught her, way back in season 2, was that a woman's most important weapon is between her legs. I wonder if that's what she was referring to when she said she knows what Baelish wants. if anything it made me feel bad for sansa. of all the characters, she had to be around the worst people. ofc she could've given tyrion a chance and learn some things but that didn't turn out. learning from cersei and LF won't get you very far.Ned and Robb weren't stupid, they were just optimistsOf course, Ned wanted to save his daughters and get them out of KL, but Sansa went squealing to Cersei.  And Robb was stupid for going to war to try to save his family - er - Sansa - who got herself trapped in KL in the first place.  

Ned and Robb made mistakes for sure, but I find it stunning the lengths the showrunners go to try to belittle Ned and Robb.

And let's not forget Sansa pleading not to be punished for being the traitors' daughter and sister, and yet she'd wish the same on others' children.

The show version of Sansa is a real piece of work in a way I don't believe book-Sansa is (or will be).Sansa calls Ned and Robb stupid for dying for their decisions.. to Jon.. Robbs brother (cousin) and Ned's son (nephew)..

**Who also died for his decisions** 

I laughed pretty hard. 

Let's not forget how Sansa is the reason Ned died in the first place by running to Cersei with his planThe only obvious thing she learned from Cercei is how to belittle littlefinger. "I'm sure it is something clever" That is same phrase used by Cercei when talking with him. The way she went about it was all wrong though. She told Jon what to do, she didn't make a suggestion or just give her opinion. And she also did it in the worst possible situation, where she's seen as undermining his authority in front of his subjects.

They definitely should be having meetings to discuss plans, so that outbursts like that don't happen again.He is talking about tv RobbYet here she was counseling the opposite to the Umbers and Karstarks. Considering both of them were keeping Jon in their "back pocket", neither one of them were really stupid.I think she was "manipulating" Jon into that situation so that he appears as a strong leader. She almost explicitly tells him this when they start talking. She talks about leaders that can't be questioned, like Joffrey, and he takes offense and she comforts him by telling him he is as far from Joffrey as anybody she knows. And that might be what she is worried about. But this way,

- He gets questioned, and his leadership tested
- The Umbers and Karstarks are made aware of what is at stake and if they *did* have somebody Joffrey as their leader, what would happen to them (at best) instead of what Jon wants to do
- Jon makes a firm decision and stands his ground with a just and merciful solution
- They get two houses back as allies
- Bonus, Littlefinger thinks the two are in conflict which each other (which Jon might think, too) and doesn't realize Sansa is playing them both, Jon to help him and Littlefinger to out Littlefinger him

The way the whole thing was set up, it really seemed like she did that to give Jon an opportunity to put his foot down and show the people he was being just and wasn't easily swayed from what he thought was right.I have no idea why people think this. It seems a lot more likely that they are going to end up together now that we know they aren't even half brother and sister. She took Jon's "rejection" too well, and that and some other things made it seem very likely that she did that on purpose so he would show people he could be questioned and deal with it justly.Same time though, how can she understand what's all that is going on? Jon hasn't done a very good job of describing how bad north of the wall is. Sansa has only known the Lannister and has seen first hand how competent/lucky/blood thirsty Cersei is. The viewers have seen both sides and understand how bad it is with the night king. Sansa still hasn't seen that power. Jon better do a job of informing Sansa of just how dangerous the knight king is or I fear LF will leverage Sanaa's disrespect of Stark men's political judgement to LF's advantage I don't think Sansa is really TRYING to play the Game of Thrones, I think it is just a by product of trying to survive. She assumes that Jon will die and leave her to fend for herself just like has happened every time something good happens to her.She doesn't want to be at the mercy of anyone ever again, so she is making sure she stays on top.

Basically the non-evil version of what Cersie is doing.I agree with you. I like that some people are just choosing to see not playing the game as a third option and going with that. However, I think Sansa's point was that, like it or not, Cersei may try to get in Jon's way in the shorter term, while his eyes look north, and possibly foil all his plans to stop the WW army. So, perhaps they're both right in their own way. If jon operates the way Ned did, he may be out-tricked by more cunning and scheming Southern characters. He needs to listen to Sansa and blend his style with hers so he can stay alive and fight the WW, imo! In fairness she was a child, she didn't want to go home, and why shouldn't she trust the queen? Ned had the experience to have known how to act in a more sensible manner than he did.

Ned had good intentions, but little political savvy.I am surprised that she is still alive, after going after Baelish in such a dumb way. Littlefinger knows that she can turn Sweet Robin, Jon etc. against him. She is a liability now not an asset. That's why it seems like she did this to set Jon up to make the decision. Think about it, she gives a hint of what *could* happen if Jon wasn't the leader. And she questions him in front of everybody and he handles it well and makes a firm decision and regains allies. She's manipulating him, but to help him, I believe.

Littlefinger either notices this and is impressed or he thinks he can play the two off each other.

She's playing Littlefinger, I think.I think Sansa is still having a lot of trouble trusting the people around her. I also think that she's not really had the chance to mellow out the same way Jon did. Let's remember, besides being totally betrayed, Jon has been surrounded by people he could sort of trust, or at the very least people he liked. 

Even while deep in Wildling territory, Tormund and Yggrite weren't going to hurt him unless he hurt them, and they never really hated him. 

After he was betrayed and brought back, he still had Edd, Tormund, and Davos around to lean on.

Sansa really hasn't had that same companionship save for maybe Shae and only recently with Jon and Brienne.Is it not possible she's playing a deeper game here? Specifically letting Littlefinger think he has daylight to work with between Sansa and Jon, so he plays his games with her and not elsewhere (giving her a chance to neutralize him).

Additionally, it was a great set up for Jon to have a grand kingly moment, which Sansa herself acknowledged. I mean they had a kid and a woman right there ready to show how hollow vegence would be. The whole thing smelled like a complete setup to me. If Sansa actually wanted to press the argument, you're right, that wasn't the time. Sansa had to know that.I doubt anyone would really want him there.His health is still to fragile to winter up north I would assume, which suits Littlefinger just fine. 

The army of the vale is separated from their liege and the household guard is probably in Littlefingers pocket, the perfect set up.She did take after her mother after all, since Catelyn undermined Robb's rule a lot as well by releasing Jaime.  Let's hope this time it doesn't end with Jon's armies deserting.She was a stupid kid who made a stupid mistake.

And if you want to blame anyone, why not blame Ned? He told Arya that King's Landing was dangerous, but he never had the same conversation with Sansa, who was in more danger than anyone. He was dumb. He never should have warned Cersei. He should have arrested her immediately. I'm sorry, but I disagree. The major hallmark of the series is that good guys don't always win. Just because she is evil and deserves to fail does not mean she will. The writers don't have to have some special feelings for her. Besides, she may wear the crown, but her family's power has done nothing but recede since Robert died. She hasn't been treated well by the writers. He kids are dead, her people hate her, her lover/brother is starting to hate her as well, she controls only 3 kingdoms...at best. She holds Kings landing and the iron throne, but thats about it. Cersie currently sets the Iron Throne. Compared to her previous enemies, she's winning. Well, Sansa did leave before Cersei really went off the deep end. 

However, I think Cersei taught Sansa that bad things happen to people, often for no reason, and you need to steel yourself to protect what little you have.She is still alive because Tywin. He built up their power so much that it Cersei has been able to be completely incompetent the entire time and see no repercussions. Nothing she has done has been smart, and her crowning achievement was basically throwing the game board across the room because she had lost when trying to be clever.   Robb lost because of the actions of Edmure (partly Robb's fault) and because Balon Greyjoy is retarded and refused their alliance. Wasn't 100% Robb's fault.I think he lost when he failed to communicate his plan to Edmure. If they had killed the mountain and his men, it may have made the freys and boltons think twice about betrayal.And if Renly had stuck around for his brother then Ned wouldn't even need to trust littlefinger. It'd be smarter for her to marry Robyn Arryn, the actual lord of the vale, kill off LF, then rule the Vale with her lord husband, who she could totally manipulate and control. > Then she claims she admires Cersei

There's no way she *admires* Cersei. You can learn from someone without admiring them. I doubt that Sansa wants to emulate her by murdering all their enemies, she just knows how Cersei operates.I know people blame Sansa for that, but why the hell didn't Ned ever tell her how dangerous King's Landing was? He tells Arya, but he never sits Sansa down and tells her the truth. So yeah, you can blame Sansa for telling Cersei, but Ned was so into protecting Sansa that he forgot just how dangerous of a position she was in.But he told her his plan, which was how it got to Cersei. That was the "stupid" part.Oh man, I literally upvoted you and then saw the "happy she was tortured" part of your comment.

Yes, Ned's death is on her, but maybe dial it down a little?Despite my dislike for her character, I can't really be angry with her. Homegirl got the worst of Westeros psychopaths as potential love(!) interests. Joffrey, Ramsay, Baelish... only one missing is Euron. More of a Queen Consort. She is more like a voice of reason/behind the scenes kind of character than someone on the field like hand. That didn't happen in the show.It's absolutely fucking absurd to hold an 11 year old girl to the same standard as Ned, a grown man in his 30s (book) or 40s (show) or Robb, a young adult of 16 (book) or 18-20 (show).  

For reference, an 11 year old would have just barely started middle school.  

You're also falling into the trap of imposing your knowledge as the reader onto Sansa.  Sansa doesn't know about half the shit that's going down around her like you are.

And in any case, that one decision isn't particularly relevant anymore.  Then have you not been paying attention for 6 seasons? Yes, Sansa was a stupid little girl once, but she has changed. A lot. She's learned from her mistakes as well as others'. Encouraging someone to be as smart as possible is great but her advice was poor in this instance. Jon has information that she doesn't (or that she at least doesn't take as seriously) which is that the White Walkers are coming and he needs every single fighter he can reasonably muster. Plus it's good logic to not punish sons and daughters for their parent's misdeeds so even setting aside the WW problem I think he still made the right choice.You've hit upon an interesting parallel there by casting Sansa in the protector role. We're focusing on the similarities between Jon and Ned but what we see in the first episode is a parallel between Ned and Sansa; Ned tried to protect Robert and believed he understood Cersei, Sansa tries to protect Jon and believes that she understands Cersei. Hope it ends better for Sansa; the woman who murdered Joffrey is surely first on Cersei's list.Not leader, but Lord. The issue with their different approaches is that Sansa still thinks that things are normal and that politics are the way to move forward. Jon sees the war coming and understands the importance of mercy and unity in the north in order to survive, he's not looking to consolidate power. No, you're supposed to marry your daughters to your enemies' sons. Take their lands for yourself, and reward them to your son-in-laws, thereby keeping their houses in power, and those rulers happy with you.They aren't mutually exclusive.  Robb made objectively stupid decisions.Excelent point!She didn't do that in the show.Yes. With what she knew at the time, it wasn't a mistake. Her father did not let her know the stakes of the event, the real dangers involved. From her point of view, she finally had her fairy tale life, and her father was taking it away for no reason.

Her telling Cersei Ned's plan is Ned's mistake, not hers, especially considering how young she was when she did it.Didn't Ned decide to go South even though Bran's injury provided him a perfect excuse to nope out of that?Are you abusing milk of the poppy againYeah. There it is. The sexism surrounding the ridiculous Sansa hate is never far away. She didn't say to butcher those children, only that their lands and castles be given to another, more loyal lord. This would further discourage any acts of treason in the future because the punishment is significant. She isn't wrong and neither was Jon.  Although I think he made the right call, we'll have to see. uhhhGRRM himself said Walder was planning on bailing on Robb anyway. The outcome of the Blackwater and Theon's 'murder' of Bran and Rickon decided Robb's fate more than Robb's marriage or any of his actions.Give the girl Moon tea for a few days and be done with it. Marry your stout and keep your alliance.Definitely what she meant, and she has said that before, directly to Littlefinger.   

I wanna say it was on the boat, but it may have been at the Eyrie.I swear to God, if Sansa starts sleeping with Baelish to get him to do her bidding.... Littlefinger wants to make her the queen and then marry her. He's wanted to be king since the beginning and has been scheming to make it happen ever since. I definitely got those vibes when she said that to Brienne. Also, I wouldn't be surprised if LF is trying to marry himself into a northern house, particularly the Starks. He controls the Vale's military, but isn't necessarily recognized by blood/marriage to be in the game of thrones. He could potentially try to leverage that power for his own gain, kind of like Euron's armada in King's Landing. Based on how grossed out by that statement Brienne looks, I think its clear that its what she is referring to.> learning from cersei and LF won't get you very far. 

I agree, but all evidence that Sansa has seen suggests exactly the opposite so it's not surprising. She could learn from Jon, too, but sees herself as his equal and so will argue with him every step of the way. It will be up to both of them to think carefully and learn from the best parts of each other's experiences without alienating each other. > ofc she could've given tyrion a chance and learn some things but that didn't turn out.

Tbf the last time she gave a Lannister a chance her dad was killed. It's totally within reason for her not to trust someone she was forced to marry. Agreed. She seems to have learned the worse lessons from each. I love Sansa, but she's going a little too Cersei for me. Not to mention the politics of the North are far different from the south. I don't deny that Jon needs to learn the game, but Sansa also  needs to tone hers down. 

Both Sansa and Jon also need to learn to listen to each other. There definitely seems to be a lack of communication going on there. Being an optimist in a time of war is probably not a good idea. So Robb was an idiot. Ned was just a noob. Ned was stupid in that he let his honor get in the way of pragmatism. If he had not told Cersei to flee the capital, along with if he took Littlefinger or Renly's deal, he would have secured the throne and kept his family alive. > And let's not forget Sansa pleading not to be punished for being the traitors' daughter and sister, and yet she'd wish the same on others' children.

Was she suggesting Jon have them be beaten by armed men?> And let's not forget Sansa pleading not to be punished for being the traitors' daughter and sister, and yet she'd wish the same on others' children.

Shit, that's a good point I never even thought of. > Ned and Robb made mistakes for sure, but I find it stunning the lengths the showrunners go to try to belittle Ned and Robb.

How often does this happen? I don't think they do that but what are your examples? Many characters who knew Ned and meet one of the Stark kids always says, "Your father was an honorable man" or something along those lines. Sansa is the first on the Stark side to even mention them being stupid. > And let's not forget Sansa pleading not to be punished for being the traitors' daughter and sister, and yet she'd wish the same on others' children

back in season 1 but this is season 7 and she has since gone through a lot > Sansa went squealing to Cersei

Not in the show.> Ned died in the first place by running to Cersei with his plan

Ned had already did that long before Sansa told Cersei the few details that she knew (which basically that he was sending her and Arya away.)  Also Show Sansa doesn't do that.Sansa did not run to Cersei with Ned's plans in the show - she only did so in the books.Yeah now that you mention it, it would've made sense for her to be like "and you died too, for the same kind of stuff, remember?"> Let's not forget how Sansa is the reason Ned died in the first place by running to Cersei with his plan

Sansa didn't go to Cersei in the show though.It's true though.  Jon Snow knows nothing, from time to time.  The only reason he didn't end up exactly like Ned and Robb is weird fire magic.

Are there people who literally still believe Sansa is the reason Ned died? Blaming Ned's poor decision making skills and foresight on his 12 year old daughter? Come ONShe was like what, 11? Ned also killed himself by not trusting his daughter to keep her informed of sensitive political information. He should have told her what was going on, why it was happening, how to stay safe.  As parent its your duty to prepare your children for the difficulties they may face, Sansa should have been more like Margery, and less of an innocent dummy prior to going to KL. 

Neds sister, father and brother died because they misread political sensitivities. Ned strove to overcome those deaths by hiding himself in the north but he also infantilised his children by excluding them from how important it was to be aware politically. He knew Sansa was political, he knew she had a relationship and even specified why Sansa giving loyalty to Joffrey was politically a good move even if it resulted in the death of her direwolf. 

Ned repeated the mistakes of older times in an effort to make his children's lives a little more innocent. And yet little finger still plays Cersi for everything he wants.She also told Jon before the BotB that she wasn't going to be captured alive, which was Cersei's Blackwater strategy. Yes that was 100% Cercei right there, I immediately thought of her when Sansa said that. I'm so glad someone mentioned this on here because I thought that was her best line in the episode, honestly. >"I'm sure it is something clever" That is same phrase used by Cercei when talking with him.

I wouldnt be surprised if it was just repetitive writing. Even professional writers fall into traps of writing in patterns. Just like the following ([source](https://www.reddit.com/r/gameofthrones/comments/3f331c/spoilers_all_whats_the_joke_behind_20_good_men/ctlcauy/?st=j58oapd0&sh=c67afd81))

- 1x05 Bronn says he could capture the Eyrie with ten good men
- 1x06 Ned orders Beric Dondarrion to assemble a hundred good men to capture the Mountain
- 1x07 Renly offers Ned a hundred good men to seize the throne
- 2x05 Theon takes Winterfell with twenty good men
- 3x03 Mance tells Tormund to pick twenty good men to climb the Wall
- 3x09 Daenerys captures Yunkai with three good men
- 4x10 Yara picks fifty good men to rescue Theon from the Dreadfort
- 5x09 Ramsay cripples Stannis' army with twenty good menSansa learned plenty.  Her whole idea to take away the holds from the Umbers and Karstarks, that is pure Lannister.

Just think about Sansa in season 1, so upset that Lady was being punished for Nymeria's crime.  "Lady didn't do anything".  Now, Sansa wants to punish children for the crimes of their parents.  And her hair. [Sansa's hair in 7x01 is exactly the same as early-season Cersei.](https://img.huffingtonpost.com/asset/596cd5c21a00003300dbf1ec.jpeg?ops=scalefit_720_noupscale)> "I'm sure it is something clever"

I didn't catch that Cersei had said this before.  That's awesome.I'm sorry, in which episode does Cersei say that to Littlefinger?
That does sound familiar. Do you remember when exactly Cercei said this (or something like this) to Baelish?A nice catch. A rather sad foreshadowing of Sansa's future?This is the only other comment I've found mentioning that. I loved it.Agreed.
Sansa screwed up the same way Sonny screwed up during the Solozzo meeting when he let someone outside of "the family" know what they're thinking.
Yeah, say what you want about Sansa, she messed up here big time. Jon did a much better job as a leader.> what to do, she didn't make a suggestion or just give her opinion. And she also did it in the worst possible situation, where she's seen as undermining his authority in front of his subjects.


I don't think people are really gathering how horrible of a position she just put Jon in. If Jon reprimands her, he will be insulting the trueborn daughter of Ned Stark while he, king he may be, is still a bastard. Even if Jon is legitimated, once a bastard, always a bastard. 

If Jon doesn't reprimand her, he can be seen as playing favorites if he tries to punish a Northern lord who talks to Jon the way she just did. 

On top of that, it didn't do any favors for Sansa in the eyes of the audience. Any point she might have had is undercut entirely by her timing and choice of delivery. She calls Ned and Robb stupid, but she herself just made an incredibly foolish mistake. While she had a point, she comes across to a lot of the audience as a petulant child. This is a very unfortunate choice in directing I believe. The more poignant solution might have been to cut the pledge of allegiance and move it to another scene and have Sansa and Jon discuss terms in private and actually have their characters develop without having the situation undercut Sansa's points, and highlight her naiveness in not knowing what she's up against. To her this is The Game, to Jon this is the War. 
Nothing annoys me more than Sansa.

If I was John, I'd put it to her like this....


" Shut up Sansa, you have no fucking idea what you're talking about. You did literally nothing but be taken, and put where people told you. You haven't commanded armies, you know nothing about strategy. You couldn't even escape Winterfell by yourself....... A cripple had to do all your hard work there too..... But oh please Sansa, tell me what knowledge you have from being married to Ramsey and Joff, two men who told you nothing of actual importance...... Oh, but the actual few bits of important info you DO know..... Yeah, continue to hide that from me......../s

Bitch, I came back from the fucking dead, and have fought snow zombies. Undermine me again, or compare me to Joff again..... and you'll meet my Backhand of the king"The way she did it reminded me of Cat.I hope that Sansa is fully aware of everything with Littlefinger and is playing a long con with him and using Jon in a more noble pursuit. Jon needs to have his Michael Corleone speech to Sansa. You cannot risk sowing dissension among your newly appointed King whose reign is tenuous and untested at best.  Absolutely, but that requires Jon talking to her *before* a council. She shouldn't have pushed him so hard in front of him men, but that was the only chance she had to voice her opinion. I'm hoping the take-away for both of them is that they need to be on the same page before going public. I thought the same when watching, that it was bonkers that she was talking back and commanding the king in the open. But then I started thinking whether it is so out in the open because it will actually be a plot point: Sansa is playing up the tension between her an Jon in purpose, to distract LF (and the viewers) and make him think that they are fighting and subject to be divided while on the hand she will use it to turn back on him. 

I think it makes even more sense when you consider the fact that afterwards they were able to discuss the same subject with respect and caring, showing that they are on the same page. I even thought that the way she is sassy with LF is to make him a little bit angry and eager, so she can shift her behavior with him and make him lower his guard when she is ready to strike.

Plus, it seems to me the perfect way to make use of the “the lone wolf dies, but the pack survives” phrase she says in the trailer, this could be a response to LF, or being said to someone else, like Brienne after she is done with LF. 
Maybe the point was to show just how shocking a decision it was. Like she never even considered it. Goes toward showing how she's able to see him as a great leader, which she then says to him outright.I really dont know why people think this. 

Jon talked about training the girls. One of the lords of the north objected. Lady Mormont routed him. It was debated. 

Why can Sansa not debate a problem the same way the other Northern Lords do? It seems to be the expectation that a Lord talk through his reasons and considerations not just tell people what to do. The northern lords are far more democratic since they elected him, then just the south where we see Cersei with thousands of faceless minions who just do her bidding. 

Northern Lords view leadership decisions to be open to a forum, and discussed by wise council, not just absolute rule. Sansa gets this more then Jon does. 

Jon needs to find a new leadership style. Internalising every single one of his thoughts is not working for him. 

edit I went to bed and woke up with bulging inbox so I thought it would be easier to address things in a top level comment. Anyway, Jon is not the first King the North. Robb was also chosen by the Northern Army, Robbs lack of perspective about political strategy got him and a lot of Northmen killed at the Red Wedding. Every single one of this Lords has lost someone due to trusting the wrong alliances. Jon needs to prove that he is not another Robb, nor is he a Ned, that he is pragmatic, that he is smart and he is protecting them from betrayal. He needs to represent the values of both Ned and Robb without repeating their mistakes. Without explaining his reasons for forgiving them, putting Karstarks and Umbers in positions of power could get them all killed. Yeah, and that's why her moment of counseling from experience and logic felt a bit flat to me.You really think Cersei is in any position to threaten the North? Winter has come, she can't do much.I do. :(Yeah, it makes sense. I just think Sweet Robyn and Lyanna Mormont in the same scene would be absolutely epic. There is plenty of blame to go around between them, but Sansa is still a hypocrite. But up until the last second he thought he had the numbers.I agree but I think it was always  too costly trying to hold the Riverlands. Robb would have never won a complete victory. I think if he wasnt murdered he would have eventually retreated back to the North. The best would have been to trade Jamie for Sansa and make peace. I know no justice for Ned but Robb could have helped prepare for th real war instead.I agree but I think it was always  too costly trying to hold the Riverlands. Robb would have never won a complete victory. I think if he wasnt murdered he would have eventually retreated back to the North. The best would have been to trade Jamie for Sansa and make peace. I know no justice for Ned but Robb could have helped prepare for th real war instead.I agree but I think it was always  too costly trying to hold the Riverlands. Robb would have never won a complete victory. I think if he wasnt murdered he would have eventually retreated back to the North. The best would have been to trade Jamie for Sansa and make peace. I know no justice for Ned but Robb could have helped prepare for th real war instead.I agree but I think it was always  too costly trying to hold the Riverlands. Robb would have never won a complete victory. I think if he wasnt murdered he would have eventually retreated back to the North. The best would have been to trade Jamie for Sansa and make peace. I know no justice for Ned but Robb could have helped prepare for th real war instead.True but wasnt Renly afraid that he might get killed? I understand that he was afraid of the LannistersIf Ned hadn't refused Renly actual sensible plan for his own plan of allowing Cersei gather her strength then Renly would have stuck around.Who else on the Seven Kingdoms advocates for the removal of Houses from their ancestral castles? 

(Besides Cersei, Tywin, and Sansa?)I don't think he realized she was in a dangerous position. Nobody in the North knows of Joffrey's character at the beginning of the series, and Sansa is too valuable for the Lannisters to hurt even after Ned's death.

I don't get the whole, "she didn't know what she was doing" argument that is prevalent with Sansa apologists. She told Cersei about Ned's plans so they would all stay in KL. Mission accomplished.Well he had to, because they were fleeing kings landing and she wouldn't budge and he said what he could to get her to budge. Finally she said okay like a bitch and then went to cersei next thing we know we get the tower of joy Ned chapter in the first book and he ded Yeah yeah I let emotions run me. I guess that means they've either done very good or very bad writing on her character to evoke such anger on my part. She's just so.... ugh! How could she say that about Ned, still think that, call him stupid and say he alone got himself killed? That's just beyond me. After all she's been through, she can't think she is more street smart than Ned. Why? Exactly! Not everyone is an Arya.>You're also falling into the trap of imposing your knowledge as the reader onto Sansa.

People do this to Ned when he trusts LF on the advice of his wife. :PShe saw how little control Cersei had over her own son when Ilya Payne cut her dad's head off his shoulders. Why emulate and admire Cersei, if she's "learned so much"?She was commenting on actions they made back then, so I was commenting on her actions at the time. Of course she has changed and evolved, but for her to say that Ned's actions got him killed, well yes they did, but he only did it for Sansa. That is the only reason he was willing to admit to "treason" was for Sansa.

>Varys smiled thinly. "Why, the realm, my good lord, how ever could you doubt that? I swear it by my lost manhood. I serve the realm, and the realm needs peace." He finished the last swallow of wine, and tossed the empty skin aside. "So what is your answer, Lord Eddard? **Give me your word that you'll tell the queen what she wants to hear when she comes calling.**"

>"If I did, my word would be as hollow as an empty suit of armor. My life is not so precious to me as that."
"Pity." The eunuch stood. "**And your daughter's life, my lord? How precious is that?**"

>A chill pierced Ned's heart. "**My daughter** …"

>"**Surely you did not think I'd forgotten about your sweet innocent, my lord? The queen most certainly has not.**"

>"No," Ned pleaded, his voice cracking. "Varys, gods have mercy, do as you like with me, but leave my daughter out of your schemes. Sansa's no more than a child."

>…

>"The High Septon once told me that as we sin, so do we suffer. If that's true, Lord Eddard, tell me … why is it always the innocents who suffer most, when you high lords play your game of thrones? Ponder it, if you would, while you wait upon the queen. And spare a thought for this as well: **The next visitor who calls on you could bring you bread and cheese and the milk of the poppy for your pain … or he could bring you Sansa's head.**

-Eddard XVIf I marry my daughters to my enemies' sons who are my own sons supposed to marry? Are we even playing the same game?She was like 12! He's gonna tell her the details of incest and bastards and plots to steal the throne?? He told her enough. It's not safe here, Joffrey is not who you think he is, and we must leave for our own good and safety. She disobeyed her father and lord and gave details of their plan to another house, the sister of the guy who just crippled her father and killed all his men!!! Ned fucked up for sure, but so did Sansa, and she has zero reflection on this fact.You could say the same thing though about Ned and his ignorance in how the world worked. They were both stupid. Arya is much younger and acted much smarter than Sansa at the time.He had to investigate Lysa telling them that the Lannisters killed Jon Aryn and thought they were plotting against Robert.  Just re-read that chapter last night.Sexism whatever, this show is a medieval world with magic, women were downplayed a lot in those times. She's over stepping a bit I haven't read this before. Is there a link?Do you have a source on that? Been wondering about this forever. When did he say this?Still, Walder would have not done the red wedding if Robb didn't insult the honor of their house. See that's the problem with Ned's parenting. He has incredibly good morals and instilled them in the kids but they were so isolated that they were all far too naive to see how things really work. He also straight up told Sansa he wants to marry her so this was never a mysterious sentence, it was painfully obvious.> I love Sansa, but she's going a little too Cersei for me.

lol right? your comment made me reconsider this passage:

>So she went to the queen instead, and poured out her heart, and Cersei had listened and thanked her sweetly … only then Ser Arys had escorted her to the high room in Maegor's Holdfast and posted guards, and a few hours later, the fighting had begun outside. "Please," she finished, "you have to let me marry Joffrey, I'll be ever so good a wife to him, you'll see.**I'll be a queen just like you, I promise."**I don't know, to me it seems like what she's learned and what she is trying to get Jon to understand is to not underestimate these people that she personally has experience with. Not being perfect doesn't make someone an idiot and Neds flaws were just as bad as Robbs...and Robb wasn't so much stupid as he was horny.

He didn't need to go with LF or Renly becaue he'd already won against Tywin, let alone Cersei - until Robert died. And not even LF or Varys knew about this plot. They presumed everyone else was as honourable as them, Ned didnt think Cersei would betray him for helping her and Robb didn't think Walder would murder guests I said punished, not beaten.D&D have a pretty enormous thing for honour and morality = bad and dumb.
Evil and sociopathic = god tier and perfect. This is evident in their simplifcation of how well Robb and Ned actually did in the books and their colossal powering up of Ramsay and Cersei in the show. Well, off the top of my head, we had the whole ToJ "bragging" Ned thing of Bran saying it was different to what he'd always been told.  They made a point of saying Ned wasn't the honourable guy people thought in the Insider the Episode thing.Which is precisely why she should have more empathy, not less.Still. By her logic, she should be dead. It was actually.And let's not forget the backdoor deal involving Cersei, Varys, and Ned: that Ned will only be sent to the Night's Watch. But then Joffrey went off the script at the last minute.Hey. Ned almost won for Stannis while playing completely clean. If he had been able to get Baelish or Renly then he would have been much better off. He thought he had both but only really needed one.She does share some blame at the very least. Ned made many mistakes, but let's not ignore Sansa's role because of it. Sansa **IS** the reason Ned died. 

Ned was 100% right in his decision to out the Lannisters as liers. This was not a mistake.
He would have probably been successful if not for Sansa spilling the beans to Cersei.

And why has no one thrown any shade at Cat? You know.. her mother. If Robb was a shitty swordsman, we wouldn't blame Cat for not training him.. we would blame Ned. 
Sansa literally says she told Cersei and then Cersei locked her up and began slaughtering Ned's men. 

Cersei only acted because Sansa had tipped her off to when the coup would occur. Prior to that like a week had passed since Ned had told her and nothing had happened. She 100% needed Sanaa's tipoff to beat Ned's strike.She's older than that even in the books. She's around 12 or 13 IIRC when she's at Kings Landing because they're waiting for her to flower into womanhood I.e. have her first period to signify she can have children which would then lead to her marriage to Joffrey except events unfolded and she dodged that bullet. Doesn't Sansa snitch out Ned to Cersei in the books? For ruining her chances to marry Joffery?>not trusting his daughter to keep her informed of sensitive political information

Do you remember Book 1 Sansa?

*Oh, I cannot wait to be with my beautiful, gallant prince! The Queen is wise and beautiful! Arya ruins everything! Oh why can't things be like they are in the stories?* 

I wouldn't have trusted her to not spoil a surprise birthday party, let alone that Robert's heirs were all bastards born of incest between Jaime and the Queen.Yeah man, I always tell my 13 year old daughter I'm bout to lead a coup against the queen. Cause little teenage girls with dreams of grandeur always think critically.  Like how Sansa thought critically and sold her father out.Ned was also dealing with the fate of the realm, the death of his BFF, and the very real possibility his family would be murdered. I think explaining intricate political details to a child is a forgivable oversight. His other kids seemed alright with the world. Jon was Lord commander, Robb was king, Bran is professor X, Arya is a super assassin.. Sansa is just an idiot. 
 

> by not trusting his daughter to keep her informed of sensitive political information

How can you be sure she would understand it? Or that she would keep it secret? She already sided with Cersei and sold out her sister. She was manipulated into betraying one family member, why not another?Though specifying 'good men' may be intentional. Every Lord has a pretty strong incentive to try to pass the elderly, infirm, unstable, and otherwise undesirable men up the patronage chain for anything that doesn't directly have a relatively immediate benefit to them. If you're a suitably cynical nobleman that's a great way to get rid of surplus mouths to feed, and other problems. All while preserving your own strength, and maybe even improving your relative position. Well, so long as the next person up the patronage chain doesn't take notice AND umbrage to it.

By specifying 'good men' that probably sets a pretty clear expectation that it's not going to be Hot Pie's extended family filling in the ranks. (Not that I have any dislike for good cooks.)I dunno this may be intended ... It's the way these people talked at the time.Ned never said anything about good men. He said 'assemble 100 men and ride to Ser Gregor's keep' Maybe there are just a lot of good men in Westeros.Ser Twenty & his little brother Ten of House Goodmen, are not traps of writing. They set the traps.Dany says "Shall we begin?" to Tyrion in both BotB episode and Dragonstone episode as well. Which doesn't help when people keep talking about how repetitive her story and especially her big speeches are.Is it, though?  Tywin was the one who cautioned Joffrey to be merciful to fallen enemies.[deleted]https://i.redd.it/tn8m4lhze8az.png

And Margery's? I think it's just hair.What scene is the pic of Cersei from? I had thought Sansa's hair was more of a Northern style. Maybe it's from a scene where Cersei was trying to get something out of Sansa and tried to put her at ease by taking on something Sansa was familiar with.I love that detail of hers. Her hair will always show you who she is trying most to emulate at the present. 

(Emulate may not be the best choice for word but you know what I mean, right?) Yeah the "Sansa is becoming Cercei" was pretty overtShe doesn't, but it was very reminiscent of Cercei, I thought. I don't think she does.  

/u/bherrick above said Tywin says it to Jaime when he's skinning the deer in the camp."Are you going to say something clever? Go on. Say something clever." was the exact quote. I forget from when. I wanna say, S02E01?

Or maybe she said it to Tyrion. I think it might have been the "power is power" interaction.How? Might make sense as sad foreshadowing if Littlefinger had killed Cersei, but he didn't, so how is this sad foreshadowing?Possibly but I've always seen Sansas arc in the book about absorbing different points of view from her very sheltered upbringing. I think it's more likely that she is synthesizing all the valuable traits from her "mentors"Why? It's not like she's bullying him and she's probably been listening to his quips for years now and didn't want to hear it at that moment. Not like Littlefinger can't take it and he is using her after all. Or at least thinks he is. Something a little finger guy would sayI immediately thought of the Godfather when she opened her fat mouth.

"Don't ever let anyone outside the family know what you're thinking"

Fuckin Sansa She always speaks up whenever she wants. She could have done it beforehand in this case as well. But every now and then she likes to act like someone's shutting her up for some reason.She also stated someone would take the castles before Jon said they would keep it. She might just have not envisaged that Jon would do such a thing since most Lords wouldn't. Exactly. They both need to learn to trust each other. 

The pack survives and all that.Oh I hadn't considered that angle, would love for it to turn out that way. I hope you're right because she comes off the same as always. A dumb girl who should have shut upooh I think you're right, especially since we had those cuts to LF during that scene. I'd love it if that was the case (Sansa's conversation with Brienne could be more evidence), but It's really hard to give DnD that kind of credit. It was meant to display how vengeful she has become, versus Jon's steadfast leadership. Burn them all vs punishing only the guilty.The people at the head table need to be on the same page. Arguments amongst them show that the people at the head table don't have their shit together yet. Its fine to discuss ideas but keep in mind the mindset of most people in this universe, granted the North is more honor bound but even allies are pretty ruthless. You don't want to show any signs of division within the leaders Because he is the king. If you have a quarrel with the supreme authority, you say it behind closed doors. I don't know where you're getting this thing about Northern lords wanting everything to be open to debate. This is just like a leadership 101 thing. 

Seeing as though Jon specifically said "You're undermining me", I don't see why you can't understand why people are saying this. The king is the king. Sansa is on a closer footing ton Jon than the lords seeing as though she is a Stark and the Lady of Winterfell. Her challenging him is more undermining than Lord GloverShe didn't debate with him, she made an order and attempted to undermine him. In that moment, she saw herself as the rightful ruler of Winterfell, and Jon needed to listen to her. It's a banner man arguing with a banner man, that's quite different than  one possible heir and ruler publicly arguing and questioning the judgement of the current leader. Because sansa just blabs to Blab. She hasn't learned anything. She was not groomed for leadership. She has been manipulated and used and abused. She didnt learn anything from that. She got the Knights of the Vail to in her mind "bail Jon out" and is just snobby about it now. Her character has not been developed into what they're trying to make her out to be, book or showThe problem was the persistence of her follow-up. Anyone who has been in a leadership position knows that what you suggest (not command) is often debated by the people you lead (much to the frustration of every leader I have ever known). What separates good leaders from bad ones is how they react to those questions and critiques. 

Sansa's fault was not in making a reasonable suggestion. It was the strength of her follow-up...the almost dismissive tone she had with Jon's original suggestion.

Jon's reaction was absolutely perfect. He acknowledged the merit of her argument, said he himself had done something like it in the past, but that it was the wrong choice in the face of their current situation. Sansa's spilling the beans is entirely her fault. Whether Ned should have prepared his children better for King's Landing is beside the point (and one I fully disagree with).

What Ned *did* do was raise all his children with a string sense of family unity and honor. "The lone wolf dies while the pack survives." And Sansa threw that all away for her chance to live her fairy tale life and marry Joffrey. 

*That's the point.* That's the character arc she goes though. As child in the first book/season she is swept up in the world of regal kings, beautiful queens, and gallant princes. But she ignore the realities. But she ignores all the evidence in front of her. The king is old, fat, rude, and a womanizer. The queen is rude and a bitch. Her prince is a sniveling little liar. She betrays Arya on the road to King's Landing to take Joffrey's side in his lies, and loses her direwolf Lady for it. 

She doesn't learn this lesson, and confesses her father's plans to Cersei so she can stay with Joffrey. Ned ultimately loses his head because of it, and Sansa spends the next 2 books/seasons as a prisoner in an increasingly bad nightmare. All her hopes and dreams are ripped away from her. She learns to stop being a little girl and start playing the Game of Thrones like she's learned from first Cersei and then Littlefinger.

But her arc isn't done yet. It's called a *game* of thrones for a reason: in the end it's not important. What's important is the coming war with the Others. Jon has got the eye on the ball, and in this instance he's right. They need everyone to get their act together, stop holding grudges, and start prepping for the assault of the White Walkers.I think it's different because she is at the head table with him, and more of an equal.

It's like if a parent tells their children to do something, the children bicker a bit and argue, but then agree. Then the other parent comes up and disagrees with the first parent... It undermines the idea of parental authority as it opens up the idea of choice: listen to one parent or the other.

So Sansa speaking out opened up the option of not heeding John's commands. There needs to be only one voice in charge, not two.right. i doubt she could handle it, and as jaime said in ep 1, they have like no allies right now. however i guess i'm fearful she'll try to assassinate jon. probably won't happen though!The entire series has been based around Cersei finding a way to get what she wants against all odds and setbacks and of the Stark men being over confident in their honorable decisions. So I'm in the camp that Cersei can definitely be a thorn in Jons side even bring about his destruction.It'd be nice if they ended up together. Robin is a bit of a stunted creep and weakling, but I don't think he's evil. And a little northern icy resolve would do him (and the Vale) well. Lyanna would end up running that relationship inside of the first hour.I don't think she was a hypocrite, it's more that she realizes Ned was "stupid" for telling her.She's a hypocrite who was already punished for her actions.And he was unbelievably stupid to believe that he had the numbers.And if Renly wasn't a pompous traitor who tried to usurp his OLDER brother's blood right to the throne then he would have lived and he would have been made heir to the throne.TrueSansa is more like "Let's think what Cersei would do and then step it down a notch because she's a sociopath".

She certainly doesn't want to just become exactly like Cersei.But Ned knows that King's Landing in general is dangerous, he knew that Cersei had reason to be dangerous, and he still told Arya about how dangerous of a situation they were in. 

Maybe you aren't a parent, but you don't have to explain yourself to your 11 or 12 year old kid... I get what he did. He was trying to be nice and fair, and so on. The point is that she realizes now that that is part of what cost him his life. If he had been an asshole and grabbed her and taken her back to Winterfel with him then she would have hated him for it then, but he'd still be alive - or at least wouldn't have died when he did.He did get himself killed. Even if Sansa didn't exist, telling Littlefinger his plan was the same thing as telling the Queen his plan, and that's what got him killed.Sansa is not trying to emulate Cersei and neither does she actually admire her. I think you either misunderstood that scene or misunderstand Sansa as a character completely. >but for her to say that Ned's actions got him killed, well yes they did, but he only did it for Sansa

Uh, what? 

 Ned telling Cersei that he knew her secret had nothing to do with Sansa.  

Ned turning down Renly's offer had nothing to do with Sansa.  

Ned trusting Littlefinger had nothing to do with Sansa.  

Ned suspected the Lannisters of having killed Jon Arryn over Cersei's secret, so it's not like he didn't have ample knowledge of how dangerous they were.

Ned sending off half his household guard to hunt down Ser Gregor had nothing to do with Sansa.

None of those fuck ups had anything to do with Sansa.You marry your eldest to the hottest/smartest piece of ass around. Your younger sons marry the daughters of your allies. *Are* we playing the same game?

EDIT: oh wait! Incest simulator. That reference went completely over my head, I feel so ashamed now.He told her his decision stands and they aren't safe.

He didn't tell her Cersei wants them dead. He didn't say his life was on the line, that everyone could fall apart. He just said the classic dad thing, "this is important and thats all you need to hear".But the difference between Ned and Sansa's ignorance was that Sansa was like 12 years old and Ned was a grown man who was Warden of the North and then Hand of the King.  Ned had far less of an excuse to be ignorant of Southern politics.

Arya didn't really act smarter, just differently.  If Arya was in Sansa's position and was marrying Joffrey, with her personality, she would have lashed out and probably gotten herself killed.  She didn't have the courtesies necessary to survive in King's Landing where subtle politics and gender roles are rigid.  If Sansa was in Arya's position, she would have died quickly too out prowling around the known world.  Sansa wasn't dumb, she played the game, although not fantastically, but come on, she's like 12.  

When Ned was arrested, Sansa dressed herself up the way Joffrey liked, she went and pled for his life like a lady would, begged in a way that would please Joffrey, and tried to endear herself to him by pledging loyalty in the courteous way expected of women that would probably have been successful on basically anyone else who wasn't crazy as fuck. Not exactly her being ignorant since that takes knowledge of how a Lady should try to win over the favor of an authority figure and knowledge of how to present oneself in a Southern court.  Arya certainly wouldn't have been able to play the quiet game of courtesies and politics in King's Landing, whereas Sansa knew she had to be quiet and appeasing to even survive there.  I just don't think Sansa was banking on how much of a psychopathic wildcard Joffrey really was.  Even Cersei was counting on Joffrey letting Ned go to the Wall until Joffrey declared last minute to kill Ned. It was a decision that basically came out of nowhere. Arya and Sansa both did what they needed to do to survive in vastly different situations.  If they switched roles, neither of them would have had the skills to live.[removed]>"What if" questions are impossible to answer with any certainty... knowing old Lord Walder's character, it is likely he would have searched for some way to disentangle himself from a losing cause sooner or later, but his desertion would likely have taken a less savage form. The Red Wedding was motivated by his desire to wash out the dishonor that was done him…

http://www.westeros.org/Citadel/SSM/Entry/Some_Questions1"What if" questions are impossible to answer with any certainty... knowing old Lord Walder's character, it is likely he would have searched for some way to disentangle himself from a losing cause sooner or later, but his desertion would likely have taken a less savage form. The Red Wedding was motivated by his desire to wash out the dishonor that was done him…

http://www.westeros.org/Citadel/SSM/Entry/Some_Questions1>"What if" questions are impossible to answer with any certainty... knowing old Lord Walder's character, it is likely he would have searched for some way to disentangle himself from a losing cause sooner or later, but his desertion would likely have taken a less savage form. The Red Wedding was motivated by his desire to wash out the dishonor that was done him…

http://www.westeros.org/Citadel/SSM/Entry/Some_Questions1Roose wanted it, and he was the one he likely first contacted Tywin. I'll bet walder wouldn't have said no. Why didn't he ward any of them? They all would've been better prepared and safer if he had.Ned only taught morals in an ideal world.  Robb made a mistake which left him with two dishonorable choices - either abandon the girl you just slept with, or break a promise to a bannerman.  Ned gave him no preparation on how to deal with that situation.Yea she's not strategic mastermind for figuring it out after he forcefully kissed her, made several pointed remarks about her/her mother's appearance and then literally proposed to her.

If she can figure out *how* he's planning on getting at her then that's something, but keeping him around is dangerous and even Brienne knows it. I really think the whole Jon/Sansa relationship suffers from a lack of screen time. It's really hard to see what either of them think about one another with what little we saw of them. I'd like to take Sansa as face value and believe her when she says she thinks Jon is a good ruler, but there is a part of me that thinks maybe this is all a manipulation. Hopefully we see enough of them together this season to get a better feel of their relationship. I'm not sure at all what you're referring to. I'm talking about Ned's coup. Tywin had nothing to do with it. LF straight up tells Ned to marry his children to Cersei's and be Lord Protector. There may be some minor differences from book to show but that's roughly what happened. Ned refuses because he knows Stannis is the rightful heir and won't budge that position. > They presumed everyone else was as honourable as them,

Very stupid of a Westerosi noble of a great house. Very very stupid.I'd argue that it wasn't them assuming everyone was as honorable as them, it's assuming their enemies had at least even a fraction of honor and a sliver of good in them.

No way Ned thought Cersei was honorable, but he did think she was a mother that would not dare risk her children's life for power.

Robb and Catelyn knew that Walder was a grouchy old prick, but the thought didn't cross their minds that he would be capable of betraying guests in his own house. Joffrey's punishment for her being a traitor's sister was threatening her with a crossbow, having armed men beat her, and stripping her in court. That is what she was pleading against. It also wasn't what she was suggesting for the Karstark and Umber children. So not hypocritical. I agree, but they are telling the story, and story is not over. :)I know this is probably contrary to popular opinion, and I've only read the first book, but Ned actually seems so much more naive in the books than the show. Because we know his inner thoughts in the book and how he doesn't know how things work in Kings Landing even though he should and is too trusting or he trusted the wrong people (Varys told him Arryn asked too many questions yet Ned continued to ask questions- although that's not why Arryn died). Maybe it's also because I knew the outcome, but the foreshadowing is there. Ned made a lot of naive decisions, of course we only know that with hindsight, but even someone with just a little more cunning could have fared better, and a man of Ned's position should at least know how things work. 

Maybe I would have had a different opinion of Ned had I read the books first but doesn't seem like everyone else feels the same way.no, her logic was to punish treason by taking the castles away from the karstark/umber families and reward them to those who remained loyal to their cause, not kill kids. jon is actually the one who mentioned that the punishment for treason was deathWhich episode? I remember a scene where they make her write a letter to Robb, but that was after Ned's capture.FINALLY someone else paid attention to that scene!He didn't either because he failed to use any strategy.agreed with the post below, rewatching s1 is painful to see how much of a brat she is, but she's not an adult. rewatching ned be so naive about throwing his family into this actual royal mess was more painful to meI don't think anyone ignores her part, she just gets a larger portion of shit than she deserves.I think that blaming Ned for everything is very popular, and encouraged especialy by Bravos theater play last year. And show is doing that for purpose ... we'll see how that story ends. :)

I think story will not end with Ned looking like an idiot, but at this point in time, it's important to see who are people who have direct opposit view from Ned, while Ned represent compasion, fer play, justice ... Show put Sansa in that group oposite from Ned, for a reason.well cat was the one who originally begged him not to take the damn job in the first place. at least she had enough foresight to know that it would throw their family into turmoil, which it did. also ned might have been 'right' to out the lannisters, but that doesn't mean it was the smart thing to do...he was too naive and didn't understand the implications of anything he was doing down there!! > Cersei only acted because Sansa had tipped her off to when the coup would occur. Prior to that like a week had passed since Ned had told her and nothing had happened.

You mean besides Cersei having Robert killed?  Cersei only organizes her coup after Sansa's tip because that so happens to be the same day that Robert dies on. "Cersei only acted because Sansa had tipped her off to when the coup would occur."

Except Littlefinger knew better than Sansa when the coup would occur and we know Littlefinger was colluding with Cersei as well, so Cersei knew everything anyway, even had Sansa said nothing, because Ned was idiotic enough to trust Littlefinger.

>This offer did surprise him. "Sansa is only eleven."
Robert waved an impatient hand. "Old enough for betrothal. The marriage can wait a few years."She's 11 in the books Maybe he could just give her a better explanation for why he was sending them away?  It would likely also help if he doesn't make a scene of ignoring all of her concerns while giving off the impression of him coddling Arya's concerns.  While, it did work out for the best, Syrio did help rescue Arya, Ned could have easily equally denied Arya her last dancing lesson along with not discussed the possibility of bringing him along with the girls.  Thus, not creating a situation where there appeared to be unfair favoritism towards one over the other.  Especially, seeing how the one that is appeared to be favored was known to be the disobedient one that giving the impression that disobedience doesn't have negative but instead positive consequences.  I love how in the same comment where you say Ned was justified in not telling Sansa anything because she was 13, you say Sansa is entirely to blame despite being 13. She hadn't even gotten her period yet but she should know not to trust the beautiful kind Queen and her future husband, the handsome prince. Maybe you should if you have her engaged at that age. She was an 11 year old girl who was told than nothing bad would happen to her father and was manipulated by Cersei and Joffrey. Because it was a matter of life and death. He had seen numerous times that Sansa would be diplomatic and try to smooth things over. Ned sent her out there completely unprepared. Maybe if he was able to say things like horseshit to her, she could have been more well-prepared.

He insulated her from all the bad things in the world, and so when she was exposed to them, she couldn't recognize them. His fatal flaw was that he was more chivalrous than he was smart. The only reason she sided with Cersi was because she was the picture of what she wanted to be some day by Ned's shielded design. Had she been raised to question authority it may of gone differently.Yes but that also makes it realistic.  We have common phrases and ways of describing people, and individually tend to repeat phrases and thinks we have previously said.but...this is actually quite realistic. People overuse phrases and quips all the time, and share them as well. And since Westeros has no internet or mass popculture, the same quip/catchphrase might end up surviving for millennia and be used by everyone, without being replaced.That line repeats on purpose - it's explicitly meant to echo 6x9. Do people not actually get that?!Tywin eradicated House ReyneLooking at his reactions, it seemed more like Littlefinger was smirking at Sansa's argument with Jon rather than Jon's leadership skills. His goal is to drive a wedge between them and slip in when she's most susceptible. He knows what kind of poison she's been fed via Cercei and himself, so he's fairly confident that she doesn't have it in her to play nice.>  I guess the real question is did she learn anything good from Cercei?

Oh god noWhen Margery came to Kings Landing, she came to become a queen and she was meant to replace Cercei.
I was going to say this! Throughout the series you can tell by the fashion and styling Sansa has as to where her heart lies. That was what I assumed was Sansa's problem in all of season 6 because her actions and undermining didn't make any sense unless she was going to become an antagonist to Jon. I think Jon isn't going to have to worry about Cersei as she will have her hands full with Daenarys, but Jon will get a figurative knife in the back by Sansa and Littlefinger because Sansa doesn't really believe the WW threat and is concerned about Cersei. Also, I just think too much of Cersei rubbed off on Sansa, so she might just desire power and the safety it would lend her.So is she gonna try to fuck her brother? Jon did have a thing for redheads.

Or maybe she gets jealous of dany when Jon and her inevitably meet up and get togetherWhich, wow, what a bad ass scene.In the show Tywin said that to Jaime when Tywin was first introduced.Oh my god, that scene was probably the worst scene in the entire show outside of any Sand Snake stuff... really bad acting an writing all around for that one scene. 

I'm glad that Lena has since proven she's a much better actress on the show. I just watched the scene and she doesn't say that. The closest line I can think of offhand that matches is in Tywin's first scene, when he's cutting up the deer, and he cuts Jaime off by saying something like, "What are you going to say now? Something clever?"Chaos...  *iz a ladduh*
I never thought to imply Lord Baelish killed Cersei (though the temptation must have been there on occasion!) nor that he'll kill Sansa.

I was simply mulling over the possible implications of those mirrored responses.  
Cersei has chosen to reject love and clutch at power.  
I wonder if that mirrored reaction indicates a mirrored fate for Sansa.
Littlefinger helped to orchestrate the murder of her firstborn (and favorite), after that she's been living on nothing but dreams of revenge. Cercei is the saddest character in the story. That's a very good point, hushzone.
The show Sansa and the book Sansa are difficult to compare. Book Sansa is easier to fathom since we have the POVs  and that development in the Vale which we never see in the show.  

Can't wait for episode 2!

Whenever two such related characters have mirrored reactions, I go into foreshadowing mode.  
It's a bad habit, I know, I know, I know.

Have you read that recent interview with Aidan Gillen about season 7?
http://ew.com/tv/2017/06/28/game-of-thrones-littlefinger-arya/
Ahh yes, dismiss Sansa becoming Cercei because Littlefinger is a dick.Something Trump Jr.  might s... Nevermind *whistle*She didn't know Jon was planning on pardoning them. I don't think it occurred to that he wouldn't punish the whole family, since that's what she's experienced. Meanwhile Arya is apparently headed South. I was really hoping for at least a brief reunion before she continued on her warpath. Yeah, I am pretty confident about this (hope I am not disappointed). 
Also, Sophie and Kit have been going on an on about sibling rivalry and power plays at Winterfell, and I have the feeling that the actors love to troll us with false or at least misleading information.
Some of the best scenes in the show were D&D's and not from the book. It's kind of ridiculous how y'all shit on them. They're really quite good at adapting something that some would argue is unadaptable, considering that the story just seems to expand as it reaches the climax rather than drawing to a close (why tf are we adding two major players--Euron and Aegon--this late in the story for example?).Lol this sub treats DnD like high school english students

They're not *that* bad, in fact I would say they're quite good, GRRM is just better

It would be incredibly easy to give DnD that kind of credityeah if that's the way they play it I would be in awe.What the hell? Taking their titles and lands is a pretty appropriate response to the level of their betrayal. It's not like she said to execute them. 

I'd call that justice, not vengeance. Thousands of northmen died because of the betrayals of their houses. So extending too much mercy to them is an insult to the men who fought and died for Jon. 
I think she is manipulating Jon.

I forsee that she will end up in power in the North and challenge Jon for the role of "King/Queen."It's all politics for her now. She wants to reward other houses as much as she wants to punish two old allies (which probably have no choice now anyway). not on topic, but Happy cakeday :) >  supreme authority,

He is not. 

He was elected like 5 minutes ago.  He is not King in the North by divine right. He was chosen. The Northmen have a more democratic view of his leadership and his decisions that way. 

Jon is a politician. He needs to politic. Then Jon needs to give his council a chance to say things behind closed doors before just winging it in front of all his bannermen. I feel like after dying due to pissing off the men he lead previously, he should be a little more careful when making decisions like this, rather than just flying by the seat of his pants. Even Joffrey utilized his small council on occasion...

No one is saying Jon made a poor decision by giving the Karstarks and Umbers a chance at redemption, because it was the right thing to do, but Sansa had a good point too. Those who remained loyal to the Starks should get a bit of a shout out, don't you think? Alienating his men is exactly what got him stabbed to death the last time. He needs to think more before he makes decisions, he needs to EXPLAIN himself before making final decisions, and maybe even allow a bit of debate so that people who may not agree with him at least feel like they have been heard. 

Sansa has had a hell of a lot of time to think, and she's learned a lot from watching the mistakes and successes of others. Her opinion is valuable, and I don't think it was unreasonable to make it known that she thought it was important to recognize those who were loyal to the Starks rather than the Boltons. I'm sure those houses who had men fight and die for Jon appreciated that Sansa was recognizing that they made sacrifices for a side that looked like it was going to lose...> Anyone who has been in a leadership position knows that what you suggest (not command) is often debated by the people you lead (much to the frustration of every leader I have ever known). 

Paraphrasing:

>You know what leadership means, Lord Snow? It means whoever's in command gets questioned by every clever little twat with a mouth. -ThorneYeah Ned gets shit but that's mostly because we have the benefit of hindsight. Robert McKee once wrote that the choices characters make under pressure reveals their essential nature.

If Ned had gone full Cersei and compromised his morals, he'd cease to be the Ned we know and love and his character would be down a dark path, being responsible for the death of children.

Ned's decision was ultimately dumb, but at the time, he was acting in accordance to his essential nature, which while it cost him his head, allows him to be remembered as a man so good men will fight wars for his kin. > Ned ultimately loses his head because of it

No, Ned loses his head because a: he told Cersei himself that he was going to reveal her incestuous adultery to Robert beforehand, out of some misguided sense of sympathy, and b: because he was stupid enough to trust Littlefinger to back his play instead of arranging for more reliable support of his own.

Ned already told Cersei enough to know she needed to kill Robert and prepare for Ned making his move against her and her children.  All Sansa did was give Cersei the information she needed to prevent Ned's children from escaping King's Landing.He also raised his children to obey authority. He exemplified this by following Robert South.

You can't say "Ned had no choice but to be Hand of the King once offered" and turn around and blame Sansa for doing as Cersei ordered. They are not equals, that's what Sansa doesn't get apparently for someone who's supposed to be politically savvy. You can also see that's the case when she tries to mock him about wearing a crown. Umm, he's the king, he can if he wants. What's your point... They have a sibling relationship on a personal level, but they are not politically on equal terms. Lord Glover and Lady Mormont are.Her bringing up this point could also be beneficial in the sense that the other lords might have had the same questions. This gave Jon a chance to explain his reasonings in front of all the Northern Lords before they left the meeting disgruntled and full of doubts. If Sansa did this on purpose then she really did learn a great deal from Cersei and played that meeting perfectly, which could explain the knowing looks from Littlefinger. Davos understands this at least, evidently. But, it got Jon's attention. It's a relatively minor decision in the larger scope of what they're facing. By speaking up, Sansa made it clear that they need to be on the same page going into these discussions. Not in the sense that she needs to stay quiet and follow Jon no matter what or vice versa, but that if he doesn't make an honest effort to listen to her that he may miss important details.  She won't allow him to make the wrong decision just so he doesn't look weak. The stakes are too high for that. 

She may be wrong on this account, but it was certainly a worthy debate to have. If Jon isn't willing to give her an appropriate forum to bring up these arguments, she has to make them known anyway she can. She's right about Cersei, and she'll probably be right about other things down the line. Sansa also sees that Jon cannot and will not waver in an open forum. In the short term, they look a bit foolish. In the long term, thet have a better understanding of what each other want and what they can each offer.  

It's simple growing pains. A small misstep that teaches a more important lesson. She could also end up being Jon's queen when she's old enough. She really is his most loyal bannerman, and stuck it out with him despite everything, even rode with him to face off with Ramsay Bolton (which takes guts, even if you're there to negotiate). 

Plus Jon's relationship with Jeor essentially made him what he is today. And is once again repeating her mistakes. It was Joffrey's throne. Also if one is talking blood right then it is Dany's. Nope, the Lannisters and Tyrells would have only won sooner. 

In the words of Jon Snow: "the penalty for treason is death". 

I'm less concerned with Sansa having murderous intent (I agree she doesn't have much of that), and more with her intent to grossly abuse her power (which is what she seems to have "learned" from Cersei).

Let's not forget that Cersei was not Tommen's legal heir, after all.

EDIT: crap, I replied to the wrong comment. Sure, I agree with you.Cuz no one in KL cares about Arya. She's not even old enough to betroth yet. And she's wild.

Sansa is courtly and the queen-to-be. She has little to fear, because she's to be protected by the king.Doesn't make him stupid Please tell me what part I misunderstood about her reflection on Cersei in that episode.He only admitted to "treason" to save Sansa, resulting in him dying.Fair enough, she did do a lot of smart things to stay alive, though she also was being used as a valuable pawn througout.

I just have problems with Sansa acting like she knows what she is doing and telling Jon off after the bullshit she pulled in the Battle of the Bastards. One could almost think she wanted him to die to avoid the conflict she is now in with him. 

She has let Baelish corrupt her too much. She thinks she is in control, but Baelish is still always going to be about #1.[removed]Well Jon is like the liberal concoction of d&d You think Walder would commit a massacre and break guest right....for no reason?

A key description of Walder is that he is petty, he's not evil like Ramsay, Roose and Joffery. If someone insults him, he will overreact, but if Robb didn't break the marriage vow...I see no reason why Walder will slaughter him in his home.
The real mistake is more a long term one, the starks allowing a house like Bolton to existAnd you know... you're in love with one of those girls. And all the Frey women are nasty except the youngest...Plus he's like 15, and this is probably the first girl he's ever slept with. > an ideal world.

Unless you count bringing home a bastard child for his wife to raise?Tywin was starting shit in the Riverlands, so Ned sets a trap to organise the rest of the realm (or at least the North, Stormlands and Riverlands) against Tywin and House Lannister. Take out Tywin and Cersei will have no power either. *eyeroll* My point still stands.  Split hairs all you like - she's still advocating punishing children for their parents' treason.And by her logic, Winterfell doesn't belong to the Starks. The kids never committed treason tho.... Ned had no reason to distrust Littlefinger. Catelyn vouched for him, Baelish was helping (or so it seemed) him, why is he an idiot?

He's an idiot for telling he knew the truth first thing. In fact, Baelish might have betrayed Ned over that incident. People just love to imagine themselves as an Arya at puberty, when in reality, we're all SansaPoint being she's not 11 at the time of S7E01. She was 11 year old girl, whose father spent 7 days in coma, after Jaime's attack. She had enough time to procces Jory's death, her father survival options, to worry for him, if she had that worry and some love in her heart ... Only logical explanation for her little chat with Cersie is that she didn't worry much what will happen to him.   He tried to prepare her. Putting family first and protecting her siblings was drilled into her from a young age, but it didn't work. She was corrupted very easily because Cersei is an adult with experience manipulating people and politics. She also thought it was right to side with her future husband, something Cersei used to manipulate her.>The only reason she sided with Cersi

She sided with Cersei because she was trying to be on Joff's good side. She thought she is supposed to take Joff's side since he was her future husband.It's meant to echo two episodes ago? Kinda short interval for that sort of writing.Although true, House Reyne more or less dared him to do it.[deleted]Jon x Sansa confirmedCousin ;)

Edit. Sorry, it was said already :(Jon is her cousin. Bran is her brother though.> dangly

Ah! That's it! I got my golden haired beauties mixed up. Don't confuse bad philosophy with bad writing. It was a very dumb and arrogant line, perfectly written and delivered. What? I thought it was a pretty good scene. One of my favorite ones from the early seasons.> Oh my god, that scene was probably the worst scene in the entire show

You mean " Power is power " ?

I think it fit Cersei like a glove. She's so thick headed that she actually believed what she said. She wanted to show Littlefinger that she has power over him and could kill him any time. In her stupidity she didn't realise that Littlefinger has been playing the entire Kingdom for years.A bahd investment, wouldn't yew saeh?She could just be on her way to becoming a *smarter* version of Cercei. She's been able to watch good decisions and bad, luck and skillful planning, so she could potentially just be learning to be a better version of her mentor.Does she know Jon and Sansa are in Winterfel?Not if she encounters her own wolf pack. You're slandering some very talented high school English students with a comment like that.The big issue is that they're seriously pressed for time. They have to plan out the season, break it into locations, write the scripts, then start shooting fairly quickly. 

They only get a few days to write the dialog for each episode. So it ends up being first or second draft quality.Especially since its not even that good to begin with. Thats exactly the type of fan service "fuck yeah Starks" shit DnD would do It doesn't really matter how good they are, it's a tv show. You can't show what the characters are thinking, so things need to be really out in the open.Unless they're writing her character really badly I'd be surprised if this is not the case. Like, even Jon realises that Sansa shouldn't be undermining him, Sansa should definitely not be doing that given her experience.I dont think she is manipulating him, but I do believe the purpose of these altercations - from a story building perspective - is to show the conflicting interests of between Jon and Sansa. This will build up to one of the penultimate confrontations of the show, pitting Sansa and Jon against one another (likely via Little Finger's manipulations) and the two of them either falling out completely or conquering their differences and ruling together. 

Im more inclined to believe that they will fall out, and the trigger will be an alliance Jon chooses to forge with Dany. She will likely argue that he is teaming up with a family that saw their grandfather and Uncle burned alive, he will resist her arguments for "the greater good" and little finger will help her devise a plan to fuck shit up. The North appears to be far more stable than the South. Perhaps allowing the heirs to inherit despite their parents rebellion provides for that stability. Now we don't have two families looking to undermine Jon. These were just kids, but they might have castellans and captains of the guards in position that if they were dispossessed would take the kids and plot revenge. Sweet frosted baby jesus, it is!If they had a more democratic view of leadership why would they even choose a king?

He wasn't elected. This is not a democracy, I don't know where you're getting this. They raised him. And they didn't raise him  above the rest of them so that he could just chair a leadership panel made of every single lord in the North. They gave him kingly authority so that he could use it. 

You keep saying they're more democratic, and maybe they are, but that doesn't mean the king should be directly told what to do by one of his lessers. Robb literally threatened to execute Greatjon for saying he was going back to his Keep after not getting command of the Vanguard. It is not not not a democracy. He is the king and he has the final say on pretty much everything, especially the punishment of his own vassals.Sansa never has any problems with saying things behind closed doors. Hence the second conversation between them afterwards anyway. She just likes to complain about how she doesn't get to say what she thinks every now and then despite the fact that she does whenever she wants anyway.> I'm sure those houses who had men fight and die for Jon appreciated that Sansa was recognizing that they made sacrifices for a side that looked like it was going to lose...

IIRC there was a lot of supportive grumbles while Sansa was making her points. Jon got none. They cheered when Umber and Karstark gave their oaths of fealty, but I don't remember them actually cheering his decision.And he said that specifically because Jon had questioned him before. He really shouldn't have been as pissed at Sansa as he was. He needs to accept that people will question him if they disagree, especially people he ended up upjumping in the line of succession.I do miss that cunt. Not totally untrue lol. Usually, the twats are the loudest. Good points. 

However, Sansa's actions aren't completely blameless. Ned only agrees to his confession because Cersei has Sansa and Arya is missing. (Aside: I forget, does Ned know Arya is missing, or does he think Cersei has her too?) Were it not for the sake of his children, Ned would have been fine rotting in the black cells until he died.

And yes, Cersei Joffrey very likely could have executed him anyway, confession or not. But the leverage they had over Ned was initiated by Sansa's actions. Truth be told, it all comes back to Littlefinger in the end.Your fist point about obeying authority and following Robert South reminds me of how differently the book and show played that decision. In the book, Ned wants to stay and Cat urges him to go and do his duty to the king. The show reversed this dynamic, with Ned insisting he must go and Cat begging him to stay. It's always bothered me that they changed something that important about their characters.Ned did what was asked of him out of loyalty and friendship. Sansa went *to Cersei* and betrayed her own father's plans and trust in an attempt to keep / get something she wanted. Her actions were motivated by the selfishness of a little girl with her head in the clouds, not some sort of misguided sense in duty  to the queen.I thought the same thing. Jon gets to be the good guy while Sansa outlines what exactly being the bad guy would look like.  It makes Sansa look a little bad but totally sets Jon up for looking great.  If used sparingly a technique like that could help Jon, and do little to no damage to Sansa's image.  But then Sansa complains about Jon not listening to her and ruins it.Didn't this essentially happen in front of her in KL after the Battle of the Blackwater? The decision to replace Sansa with Margaery as Joffery's betrothed was already decided, but the court needed to see the logic behind it, and publicly have the septon say it was acceptable. It was a 'show, don't tell' moment that guided the court through the logic, instead of them jumping to their own conclusions or trying to find holes in the logic.

I feel Sansa understood that at the very least, the Vale lords may not understand why Jon would protect houses of traitors (perhaps the Northern houses see it more like Jon does, but I don't think that's clear).She's right about Cersei? Really? What threat does Cersei pose to the north exactly? She's going to be fighting at least a two-front war soon. Historically, fighting a two-front war is suicide. Invading the north would would bring that up to three or four fronts. And this is all in the winter, mind you. Unless you're Hannibal Barca, being in enemy territory in the winter never works out (and Hannibal was dealing with three-month-long Italian winters; Cersei would be dealing with years-long Russian winters.) And before she can even GET to the North, she would have to go through Moat Cailin. A castle which has not once, in all known history, been taken from the south. And before she would even get to Moat Cailin, she would need to pass through the Riverlands, which wouldn't be such cakewalk given that the Freys are dead. While she's busy dealing with unruly Riverlords on her march (in the dead of winter -- you saw how harsh winter can be in the Riverlands from the Hound's scene), the Vale, which is part of Jon's kingdom, would come up from her flanks or her rear and smash her.

And by the way, with what army is she going to do any of this with? The Lannister army was decimated in the War of the Five Kings. The Crown leaned heavily on the Tyrell army, and now the Tyrell army is fighting with Daenerys. And speaking of Daenerys, Cersei is going to have to use what few troops she does have in dealing with that immediate threat(I've already mentioned this when I talked about the two-front war, but it bears repeating), how in God's name is she going to get enough troops off when she invades the north. 

What else could Cersei do, besides militarily? Rile things up in the north? With who? Jon just effectively brought the young and impressionable Umber/Karstark leaders firmly under his wing. Cersei MIGHT have been able to spare a couple spies in the north to rile those houses up, but now how would she do that? What possible reason could they have to turn on Jon. The remaining lords, especially the ones who didn't fight in either side during the Battle of the Bastards, are salivating at the opportunity to prove their loyalty to Jon. 

So, how is she right about Cersei? Marrying his most loyal Lord of one of the smallest northern houses makes no practical sense. Nothing to gain.

Marrying a southerner makes 100x more sense politically. Also he can then have Lady Mormont marry someone else to make the north stronger. 

I'm assuming Jon ends up with Daeny for obvious reasons. But Lyannas loyalty to Jon (and Sansa) gives them ample reason to install her as the effective ruler of the Vale and push Littlefinger out of the way.We don't know that. I think this Season will prove whether Sansa can be better than her parents and Cersei.Whom he knows is something weird and horrible.

And by that point, he knows Cersei is up to no good.They clearly did in the comment above...I'm confused. Is this rhetorical?That despite the fact that Cersei is her enemy, she had learned a great deal from her. Which she *did*. Sansa has been learning a great deal from almost every character she has encountered over 6 seasons. Most importantly, Sansa has learned from her collective mentors that the code of honour that the Northern men adhere to so strongly is shortsighted and useless against the people who play the game of thrones. Sansa is not trying to be Cersei, but she has learned valuable lessons from her that she will put to use. That didn't result in his death.  Joffrey being a cunt resulted in his death.

But all of Ned's stupid decisions put him in that position more than what Sansa did.

And you can't blame her for a decision he made for her sake anyway, that's fucking absurd.She should probably still be playing nice with Baelish, not as cold as she is with the sarcastic responses. Might as well keep him close since she knows what he wants right?[removed]>You think Walder would commit a massacre and break guest right....for no reason?

Not for no reason, for greater control and influence over the Riverlands and because he'd be in the shit with two powerful houses otherwise. Not even a bit of opportunism?I mean, beyond some of the fringe theories, is there really any proof that House Bolton needed to be expunged or just that Roose is a pretty big dickhead?One is in a pretty standard measure of how one punishes treason while the other is the measure she was pleading against. and so it didn't, it belonged to the boltons til the battle of the bastardslittlefinger TOLD NED NOT TO TRUST HIM tho. ned, for as great a dad and husband and northern ruler he was, was incredibly naive and all his bad decisions shouldn't be pinned on his own childrenWell for one, Littlefinger literally said directly to his face that he shouldn't trust him... So there's that.I fucking hate lemoncake.> She's around 12 or 13 IIRC when she's at Kings Landing 

But that wasn't the point at all.. >Putting family first

By this reasoning, Sansa did exactly as Ned taught. Cersei and Joffrey were about to become her family.

It doesn't matter how you try to cut it, Ned was the adult and the parent. Sansa cannot be blamed for being a child and reacting on fear as children do (being afraid to lose her 'true love' Joffrey, lose her chance at being the queen, etc). Ned should have spent less time trying to shield her and more time trying to open her eyes to the boy she was so infatuated with. If Sansa had been more aware of Joffrey's nature and the truth of the Lannisters, she would never have tried to protect the relationship, and thus never told Cersei of Ned's plan. 
This goes before then, though. Ned never trusted Sansa with...well, anything. He was content to let her believe in songs and fairy tales.

He did the same with Arya to a certain degree, but it wasn't until he realized that she was more of a tomboy that couldn't be controlled, like his sister, did he actually say anything revealing to her.

Like Jon said in the episode, Ned sheltered his daughters from the hard truths of the world, which on one hand, is admirable, but on the other, came at a lethal price.because she was trained to think that way by her parents. None of neds kids were raised "correctly" as in being able to survive the world they live in. The only reason aria, jon and sansa are alive is a product of their environment post neds death where they had more than their shares of a smack in the face of reality.LOL It might actually be even worse if they did it on purpose.It's not like it was two weeks ago, it's been more than a year.Not sure I agree with that assessment. It seemed to me that he was hosting over Sansas annoyed pout, but this is all speculation so maybe you're right idkThey think they're brother and sisterCersei did fuck LancelFat fingers and Reddit on mobile Dangly TarnoodlyenThe bad writing is that LF would actually do something this brazen with Cersei.To each his own, I guess.  I did think of a worse/more cringey scene from the beginning, and that would be the Petyr sextoposition scene where he lays out his entire plan/philosophy to a random whore like an idiot, all while giving the viewers gratuitous nudity front and center. I...don't see how that makes her stupid, *any* lord would have reacted the same if someone like Littlefinger tried to threaten them.

You think Tywin would have reacted any different? Or Jaime?

A queen is not going to allow someone as low as Littlefinger openly call them out about treason and incest.

Even Ned almost choked Littlefinger to death due to his mouth, and Catelyn reacted negatively, by throwing stuff at his face in the brothel.

There is no highborn who would have reacted in a positive scene so why is Cersei considered so dumb for reacting?I think she did realize his threat when he made a jab about the incest.I think that scene is a reference to the interaction between Varys and Tyrion - that power resides where men believe it resides from ACOK iirc.Even book Cersei is not that dumb.  The line would have been much better and fitting if she had said, "*This* is power."  I honestly believe the writers thought that line was clever too, the way it came across. 

A better example of an almost identical line would have been Maester Pycelle's "treason is treason!" line... Pycelle was playing the part of a doddering old fool and that line and delivery perfectly exemplifies it. True, but she is repeating a Cercei's mistakes. Needlessly antagonising Littlefinger - as satisfying as it was - isn't a wise move. Nor was questioning Jons judgement of the Umber's and Karstarks in such a public setting.She's acting vengeful, just like Cersei. Cersei treats the world as black and white, against or with her. If you cross those lines she will kill you.

Sansa is acting the same way. Breaking up the houses that sided with the Bolton's was purely for revenge. Revenge is what causes so many problems for Cersei. She's lost way more than she's ever gained.Just without the whole psychopath thing. You could argue she was acting pretty vengeful talking about taking seats from the Umber and Karstark holds and rewarding her loyal bannermen but in her mind it might have been more like rightful justice to those who betrayed her. It would be pretty big news among the locals in that area. In her travels from the ports to her visiting the Frey's it probably would have been overheard. Or she could just ask someone. This right here. I agree completely.I definitely think Jon's decision makes more sense to the book readers; the Manderlys make a hell of a case for being as loyal to your bannermen as you expect them to be to you. As for why Jon actually did it, I think you're exactly right. There's no way the decision that makes the fewest waves wasn't letting the kids stay in power. It would be the worst idea ever to go after the Starks now, even if doing what he did wasn't enough to make those two loyal for ever (which it sure would for me.) This lets everyone get to work preparing for the storm.More democratic, not absolutely democratic. Not democratic in the way we understand it. They elected him KITN because they just went through a great time of insecurity. They chose him. They still expect give and take, open communication and more transparency in these decisions, he has the title of King but he has to represent their wishes. Simply being tapped for leadership does not exclude the idea a person has to be political about their decisions and have mature debate. its even more important in a crisis and again, when establishing a new world order. 

These alliances are built on goodwill and shared values. If he wants them to back up his decisions that fundamentally change the culture of the north or don't seem all that sound he needs to explain them. People forget the Lords have to go home to their men and enact these policies and they need to be given the reasons why that make sense to everyone there because its public policy. Jon shouldn't need to consider the feelings of everyone he got ahead of in line of succession, not that there was even a kingdom for him to inherit anyway, unless Sansa should be considered as someone who will betray him like that.
  
Jon knows what Thorne meant there now, he knows the problem with challenging the leader, that was a learning experience for him too. So he's right in that she should have been more reasonable there.I think his main issue was how forceful she was in it. Jon should have talked it through with Sansa prior to making the decision though. Ideally, they would both treat this as a teachable moment.In the books didn't Sansa tell the queen also that Ned was sending them back to winterfell which sped up her plans?

Ned did know Arya was missing as Varys told him.Where's your back-up for this assertion?I haven't watched the series enough times to be sure, but I believe you're right. One thing is for sure, she understands the politics behind bestowed lordships and what actions can forge alliances as well as create enemies. If she intentionally acted the way she did because of that understanding she played not only the other houses but also gave LF a fake target (her and Jon's dissent) to try to exploit in order to keep him busy.  Whether it was intentional or not though, her arguing this point and having Jon explain his logic put those sentiments to rest before they were given chance to be exploited. > And before she can even GET to the North, she would have to go through Moat Cailin. A castle which has not once, in all known history, been taken from the south. And before she would even get to Moat Cailin, she would need to pass through the Riverlands, which wouldn't be such cakewalk given that the Freys are dead.

Stannis got into North with ships. Cersei could do the same now.That would work. I would feel bad for her though, having Sweet Robyn as a husband. He's such a little wimpy shit. Maybe Ned Umber will grow to be a fitting suitor. Unless my memory fails me, doesn't Jon also make a remark about Sansa's apparent admiration of Cersei?

Sansa may well be the scholar you claim she is, but who does she emulate? She calls for the banishment of Houses Karstark and Umber, who else has done that?

Tyrion? Olenna? Even Littlefinger is seeking to maintain the Arryns in the Vale! Control the lord, not the castle.

Cersei on the other hand did just that in the Riverlands and the North by deposing the Tullys and the Starks (and look where that got her).Seconding this. I don't remember if this was in the show, but in the books the deal that Varys and Cersei and Ned made was: Ned admits treason and he gets sent to the Wall. That's it. But Joffrey went off script at the last minute.I dunno, her hard-to-get attitude with some shade thrown is probably a big turn on for Littlefinger.While you are free to disagree, please do so civilly and without resorting to personal attacks, per our subreddit civility policy in the sidebar. When it comes to debates, "Play the ball, not the person."I thought it was cannon that there was a long rivalry between Bolton and Stark for control of The North? Littlefinger was basically schooling Ned on how "you shouldn't trust anyone", so of course he's gonna say that.

Not to mention he's also a cheeky bastard.


Again Catelyn vouched for Littlefinger.Yea but he's a cheeky bastard and always smirks.

Again can I reiterate that Catelyn vouched for him?> By this reasoning, Sansa did exactly as Ned taught. Cersei and Joffrey were about to become her family.

She was raised to believe in princes and fairy tales, and when she got engaged to Joffrey  it was stressed to her how important this marriage was and she would have been taught how she was supposed to act around royalty. She just assumed they'd be good people like her parents... it's Ned and Cat's fault for sheltering her. I know they MEANT well, but they did not prepare her for life outside of Winterfell.> Ned never trusted Sansa with...well, anything. He was content to let her believe in songs and fairy tales.

He should have prepared her for the real world.Sansa was a 12 year old girl and has been drilled to honor family for her entire life. Ned had no way of knowing that Sansa would selfishly throw her family away and side with her betrothed because who the fuck would do that?Take it easy on Ned and Cat...their kids were raised in the North, which is a totally different world than KL. But the world they lived in was an isolated one in Winterfell. Who gets to decide what is correct? Her parents trained her to think that family was most important, but when the time came to test her resolve, she failed. She was manipulated by Cersei into going against her family.Holy shit you made me snort really loud at work. Please don'tI think Tyrion's brothel scene with in the Pilot is the worst, but maybe that doesn't count as it's the pilot.>as low as Littlefinger openly call them out about treason and incest.

They were alone, with some guards.

>so why is Cersei considered so dumb for reacting?

Because she thinks that actually scared him and that she successfully intimidated him into submission.Everyone knows about the incest by now. She doesn't realise that Littlefinger is playing them all. When he told her he'll go North and demanded the North in return she didn't say shit, even though that would make him ruler of the Vale, North and part of the Riverlands.As you said, she's not as smart as she thinks she is. If she truly believes that she's got Littlefinger all figured out, then she's already in way over her head. Cercei underestimated the power of diplomacy and forgiveness, and Sansa's seemed to have picked that up, along with her own mother's ruthless mistrust. Valid- but if she and Jon stick together and start working their stuff out behind closed doors- they would make a serious power couple. I have thought about Jon getting the throne w Sansa as an important advisor- just like Renly to StannisIt's pretty consistent with Medieval politics. In the War of the Roses there were lords who lost seats or claims on land to their peers who were on the "right" side of the war. I don't think it's vengeful as much as consolidating powerThere is a great scene in Mad Men when Don might have to fire someone. Cooper says something like, You never how loyalty is born.  This is how loyalty is born. > Jon should have talked it through with Sansa prior to making the decision though.

That's the issue. Jon seems to think he can just announce his decisions and everyone will accept them as fait accompli. If you're going to try and shoehorn important decisions in without discussion your advisors that strongly disagree with that decision are left with no choice but to strongly disagree in public.I think you're right on the count, thought it really just comes to a head when Ned makes his play and gets stabbed in the back by Littlefinger.

And thanks for the info on Arya. I figured Varys would have told Ned the truth on that matter, but you can never be too sure when The Spider is involved. :-)I'm not sure if it happened that way on the show but it certainly did in the book. I remember her crying about how she wants to stay in Kings landing with joffrey and how she was worried her father would do something to jeopardize that.>"How well I know that, child," Cersei said, her voice so kind and sweet. "Why else should you have come to me and told me of your father's plan to send you away from us, if not for love?"

> "It was for love," Sansa said in a rush. "Father wouldn't even give me leave to say farewell." She was the good girl, the obedient girl, but she had felt as wicked as Arya that morning, sneaking away from Septa Mordane, defying her lord father. She had never done anything so willful before, and she would never have done it then if she hadn't loved Joffrey as much as she did. "He was going to take me back to Winterfell and marry me to some hedge knight, even though it was Joff I wanted. I told him, but he wouldn't listen." The king had been her last hope. The king could command Father to let her stay in King's Landing and marry Prince Joffrey, Sansa knew he could, but the king had always frightened her. He was loud and rough-voiced and drunk as often as not, and he would probably have just sent her back to Lord Eddard, if they even let her see him. So she went to the queen instead, and poured out her heart, and Cersei had listened and thanked her sweetly … only then Ser Arys had escorted her to the high room in Maegor's Holdfast and posted guards, and a few hours later, the fighting had begun outside. "Please," she finished, "you have to let me marry Joffrey, I'll be ever so good a wife to him, you'll see. I'll be a queen just like you, I promise."

- *A Game of Thrones* - Sansa IVIf this was an effective Littlefinger distraction tactic, I'd be super impressed. It may play on his 'origins' a bit. He may had lost to Brandon for Catelyn's affections in the past, but he knows he can outwit Stark men, and I don't know if he'd be willing to miss out on the opportunity to prove it. Okay. Winterfell is still hundreds of miles inland. Let's see her march her army that far through entirely hostile territory in the dead of winter. That worked out well for Hitler and Napoleon (and Stannis for that matter). Cersei doesn't have a quarter of the military acumen of any of those people. That's true. But as far as I know, the rivalry was primarily before the Starks were in full control of the North and the Boltons still held the title of the Red King. The some on-again-off-again rebellion you'd expect from a formerly powerful house that became a vassal. But in recent times they have skated their lane.That was before the targs. Since then the Starks had been in firm control of the northNot really, Catelyn at most thanks him for his help but never tells Ned to trust him.  Moreover, LF tells Ned that after she has left along with spelling out to Ned all the reasons he opposes Stannis as king.  It is on Ned to adapt to new information.I mean Ned obviously planned to have his children marry and go into the world some day. It would have been an even bigger smack in the face if their first experience with the hardships of the world was on their wedding nights. >Because she thinks that actually scared him and that she successfully intimidated him into submission.

If that's the case, then would you be fine if Cersei had his throat slit right then and there?It was just a rumor by king stannis during that scene.If she stopped being an idiot maybe. She's to arrogant and overconfident to be a good advisor at the moment. Not that she can't change.Correct, that does happen in the book. Why are you citing the book for a show discussion? The show and the book have two different canons as should be obvious at this point.

Show!Sansa never went to Cersei. So in a discussion about show!Sansa, can you back up your point using the show?Before the Targaryens and during the age of heroes, the Starks weren't even the strongest house in the North, but the Dustins were as the Barrow Kings. The Starks had to fight many strongholds to be the "top dog".It happened in the show. Why do people keep asking this? This is the asoiaf subreddit having an dicussion about the tv show I dont see the problem with quoting the books at all.Because I forgot that point was different in the show. :-) Honestly, the first few seasons were such a close adaptation, I just reread an episode summary and was reminded Sansa gets captured by Lannister men. Oh well.

Okay, I'll reluctantly concede on this particular point. My general thesis still remains: Sansa was a selfish little twit in Season (and Book!) 1. But that's okay, because we're supposed to hate her in the beginning for betraying her family for dumb little Joffrey. But she learns and develops and becomes a better person.

However, I don't think her scenes with Jon were that great. On one hand D&D are trying to show a unified front for the Stark (and Snow) kids, but then they have Sansa behaving this way to needlessly argue with Jon in front of the Northern Houses. If she was so much smarter like she claims, she would know enough not to undermine the Kingindanorf in front of his subjects like that. Their situation is still tenuous, and if she's trying to weed out unloyalties, shoe shouldn't be sowing seeds of doubt at the same time.

Also, she needs to kick Littlefinger out as soon as possible. Where the hell is little Robin/Robert Arryn? That kid is love with her. She can manipulate *him* to keep the Vale knights in the North and just have Littlefinger dealt with properly.I think the show writers regularly include parts of the books as a "shout out" to book readers. In some ways, the book readers are hardest on the show production. Lem Lemoncloak, Myranda, Alys Karstark, and so on are noteworthy in the books but have trivial parts in the show. The show runners have no reason to include them but they throw in the names as a salute to us book people.




As for the quote itself, I believe GRRM has used it when Tyrion murders Shae, the subject of the song:

> Tyrion slid a hand under his father's chain, and twisted. The links tightened, digging into her neck. "For hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm," he said. He gave cold hands another twist as the warm ones beat away his tears.



However, for show watchers, I believe the scene is what is important. We see, for the first time, the Lannister soldier; men tired of war, yearning to see their children, dreaming of home, fighting for a cause that has no benefit to them, etc.  This is after Ayra kills the Freys for murder and guest right violations.  Much of this episode was who "deserves" what and the injustice associated. The old man robbed by the Hound that had to kill his daughter to save her from starvation, the Karstark&Umber children that were about to be stripped of their lands,  and these Lannister soldiers. These are decent men that offer food and a fire to a hungry stranger. These men will probably die en mass soon.That is what war means. 
> Tyrion slid a hand under his father's chain, and twisted. The links tightened, digging into her neck. "For hands of gold are always cold, but a woman's hands are warm," he said. He gave cold hands another twist as the warm ones beat away his tears.

Yeah this is from Tyrion XI in ASOS but my point with the post is that both Lannister brothers have gold hands to strangle their ex-lovers with. Like we've both said maybe it's just a nod to book readers but I think it's just a strange time to bring up Symon's song when it's pretty significant in the books but none of that is in the show. One golden hand for Jaime. While it was a great way to bring Ed Sheeran into the show, I doubt he will have many speaking parts for the remainder of the series. 



As to the subject at hand, I read it to be far sadder than most people. Cersei will be a sad and pathetic ruin at the end. 
 

> And when your **tears have drowned you,** the valonqar shall wrap his hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you.


I envision Cersei as a wreck at the end and her death as a mercy killing. Perhaps Jaime will be hand of the queen at the time and he too will get a chain of golden hands.  Jon continues to run into this. He's the only one trying to unite everyone, while others around him are so focused on the reasons why everyone hates each other. People STILL don't understand what's coming.

He tried to enlist the help of the Wildlings and was murdered for it.

He is keeping the North united by offering the Umbers and Karstarks another chance, and the Lady of Winterfell disagrees with him in front of his Lords.

Next, he is likely going try to form another alliance between Dany and The North, and we've already heard the Northern Lords saying "You can never trust a Targaryen."

I hope people start trusting in his judgement a little more.the way i took it was a bit different. For me, it was about him being a bastard, a mistake by his "father" Ned. He has been judged and punished by others just because he is a bastard... He knows what it feels like and does not want to do the same to kastarks and umbers.I think this is clearly a direct statement to what Jon went through growing up as a bastard. He was always cast aside, looked down upon, and talked about behind his back. Life was difficult for him do to his "father's" sin of fathering a bastard. He will not allow that to happen to his subjects. Furthermore, it shows mercy and that when he had the power to stomp out a traitorous household, he gave the new leaders a chance to bend the knee instead of putting them to the sword. This will ensure loyalty from those houses forever.....


not to mention the whole army of dead coming for the living thing. Makes sense to have plenty of soldiers.Goes both ways too. Daenerys has reasons to have a grudge with the Starks considering Ned Stark was one of her dad's usurpers.Good point. I like to think that him being a bastard, having contact with the wilding culture, and being from the Night's Watch has something to do with his logic. What matters is what you do, not where you came from.I posted it on another post but Sansa has a point. Jon should have realized that and said "Yes my sister is right, that is why I'm granting the Dreadfort to so and so"I was thinking about Umbers. Greatjon followed Robb South, he and majority of his host were killed, partially cause of Robb marrying Talisa. Then, Smalljon wants to fight for Ramsey mainly because Jon let wildings through the gate. 

Taking their home castle for it would be quite unfair imo. I just wonder if she will do the same for him.

Then again, R+L=J So..Y'kno, while it's nice and all that Jon is a sweet boy who is willing to break tradition and forgive the houses for the treasons committed by a few, I really wish Jon would have changed in some way after his resurrection.  I wish he was a little more timid, paranoid, suspicious, more self-preserving.  It would have been more interesting to see him break from his Mary Sue-like personality to something a bit more Chaotic Good.Sins of the father kind of apply across the board. Jon would hopefully want to set aside differences and work with Dany and Tyrion, maybe even Jaime. Similarly, Dany might need to forgive/set aside differences with Jon, Sansa, Arya, and Jaime.It'll be amusing when Littlefinger chimes in that Ned Stark argued the very same thing when Robert wanted to send assassins to kill Dany. My gut for some reason says that Jon will go to Dragonstone expecting a fight. He wont want to fight, but his isn't sure if diplomacy will work with the Targaryen. He will bring an army with him and show up at the shores almost warning Dany that he doesn't want to fight and that he needs her help. Dany will see Jon as just another person in her way and she will send her men (and possibly dragons) at Jon and his men. This will all be stopped by Tyrion and Sansa. Something that seems to be omitted from most of these discussions is that Ned Umber and Alys Karstark, given their castles back, are quickly going to have to defend them against the WW. Jon isn't just granting them nice real estate - he's also giving them the responsibility of being the post-Wall North's first line of defense. They will have to prove their worth to keep those castles. 

This kind of thing happens elsewhere in the show/books too. Jaime brings the riverlords to heel, and then prepares to make them prove their allegiance by sending them as the first wave against Riverrun. Danaerys makes Jorah prove his allegiance (after learning he was originally a spy) by sending him on a dangerous stealth mission in the city drains. Maybe, but I think its also important to consider where they were in the room-- they were in the back, not near the high table. 

That's where Jon spent his entire life;  its telling that he knows that merit can live in the back of the room, and that opportunity to set things right is hard enough to find.    The War for the Living is going to require everyone and everything working together-- and that starts by leaving no one behind.

But Dany burns innocent people just like her father, so saying she's different from him would be a big stretch for JonJustice and honor have returned to WinterfellWhat bugs me is that he could have done both and made Umber, and Karstark, take marriage pacts.That's possible. I thought it was more about Jon realizing all their squabbles mean nothing in the face of the Army of the Dead. Basically, the Game of Thrones is an afterthought and he doesn't want the distraction. Karstark and Umber are both powerful houses, and he needs them if he wants to have any chance against the wights.I thought it was interesting that Sansa preached against Jon in that regard but also was a victim of being punished for her father's  sins by the Lannisters.His biggest point is that they need Dragonglass and Dany is sitting on the largest deposit in Westeros. It doesn't matter what she is really, they would have needed to deal with her to mine it anyway.I think the scenes with Arya are also related with that .

Arya poisons bunch of Freys, because of the violence they inflicted on her and her own. But who knows how many of them were not at the Red Wedding at all either intended or not, or compelled to do so?

Then we see Lannister soldiers talking about their families and Arya realizing they're just ordinary people, not monsters. House Lannister is greatly responsible for the fall of House Stark but that doesn't mean that everyone who's following order from higher ups should be punished for it.I loved that scene and is the key for everyone who wants peace.
New threads are being manually reviewed by the mods.  Because r/asoiaf is flooded with new posts in the aftermath of a new episode, often making similar points, your post is more likely to be approved if it is thoughtful and original.  

**If this is a reaction or discussion about the most recent episode, please take it to the discussion thread.**

If it is not about the most recent episode, be advised that it may get a better response in a day or two.  If your post hasn't gone live after 30 minutes, you are welcome to try again tomorrow.  Sorry for the inconvenience.

*I am a bot, and this action was performed automatically. Please [contact the moderators of this subreddit](/message/compose/?to=/r/asoiaf) if you have any questions or concerns.*Yup, are there any Boltons left to give the Dreadfort to?  Jon will turn up and say I'm the rightful king not you lol give me your dragonsHow dumb would Jon have to be to bring an army against three full grown dragons and another army? He did say those two castles are the closest to the Wall should the Dead make it past it somehow.Well, the girl was actually closer to the middle. 

And the back may not be glamorous, but it certainly is safe. [deleted]She's also highly motivated by revenge for what was done to her, her father, brother, and niece and nephew.  She yanked down the Baratheon banner and dropped it on the floor.I wonder how much the people of Westeros know about Dany as she arrives. Cersei will have spies in Essos, sure, but Jon might not know a great dealA bit surprised he didn't take hostages...though I suppose there weren't any to take.Given that Sansa is just getting out of a bad arranged marriage herself, I can't see Jon forcing that on anyone.What Sansa has never understood is how much worse the white walkers are compared to Cersei. Nothing she can do can rival the entire nation being frozen and reanimated, and she has far too many enemies to even be a worry. Sansa keeps saying "but you don't *know* her like I do", and it's getting really annoying.

Were it not for the WW, the entirety of the North could stay there and wait for Dany to retake the rest of the kingdoms and then just swear fealty to her.It can be both.She wasn't advocating hurting them, just not forgiving their families treachery. She wasn't advocating physically abusing the kids like what happened to her. She was advocating giving the castle to Houses that could be better trusted.There's still a lot of practical logic to Sansa's advice. Before Royce interrupts Jon, he seems to be suggesting that the Northern Lords will work together to protect Karhold and Last Hearth, the likely first points of attack.

Again, army of the undead outweighs realpolitik and all - but suppose it wasn't an existential threat attacking them. Sansa makes a valuable point about how every other lord maybe isn't entirely excited about prioritising the protection of families who they had to fight against in the Battle of the Bastards.Yeah, she realized that's how the Game is played, unfortunately.She said it herself, she learnt a great deal from CerseiFire breathing Dragons would be nice too.>But who knows how many of them were not at the Red Wedding at all either intended or not, or compelled to do so?

She/Walder explicitly made a point about only having invited Freys that were "worth a damn" and that had all actively participated in the Red Wedding. Clearly she had done her research, and didn't just murder people because of guilt by association. And why does it matter whether they were compelled to take part in butchering people in violation of the guest right? She made it clear she had carefully chosen her victims. 

The fact that she spared the Lannister soldiers later on is more of an indication of that. It's something she struggled with since her training as a Faceless Woman began. 

She couldn't bring herself to kill The Hound either, after learning that he wasn't just Joffrey's dog, and had more depth of character. 

I think a lot of people have really misinterpreted that scene with the Frey's. As a parallel to what was said above, Arya spent some formative years with tywin. Her speech sounded a lot like what tywin spoke about considering the raynes of castamereEdmure is still in the dungeons when Arya kills Walder. She had the chance to free her uncle, but I don't think she even knew that Edmure was still there. Just a thought I had [deleted]The people she killed were all Freys, not "Frey men." And they all confessed to the red wedding showing no remorse before she killed them.Too bad she realised that after she killed an entire family.I think you're spot on there Sansa BoltonIs Jon aware of the dragons tho? *show StannisShe crucified hundred masters without questioning if any of them were against slavery, simply for being masters. Then she burned three masters because "they MIGHT be related to attacks" without any evidence. Bonus point, she burned Khals in city were murder is forbidden and threatened to "BURN THEM ALL" to masters armada and cities if Tirion didn't stop herBut she didn't dance all over it like I would have.Dany likely was quite happy to let everyone know that the slave-freeing queen is coming to Westeros. Her problem is that she's really an Essosi queen coming into a situation and culture she really knows very little about.Jon has Littlefinger, who seems to know everything and for him Jon-Dany alliance is not good thingLol so because of that, he is just going to not use one tool that has created and cemented some of the most important and powerful, political and family bonds in history.> she has far too many enemies to even be a worry. Sansa keeps saying "but you don't know her like I do"

Cersei in this episode basically said she doesn't care about being surrounded and Sansa was right about Ramsey.  She told Jon basically that if his strategy was to get in Ramsey's head it wouldn't work and surprise it didn't just because she didn't know what to do didn't mean she didn't know what not to do, and employing help from littlefinger to win the North was the last option. She didn't tell Jon because Jon would have taken the help no questions asked.  She rightfully worried that Ceresi will figure a different way to kill them that doesn't involve marching an army north because duh that wont work, but something like the red wedding, or wildfire under the sept.... who knows what Cersei will come up with because she fucking crazy, Sansa is saying that Jon cant ignore her... she is a real threat.Sansa said the same thing about Ramsay and Jon dismissed it...then Ramsay brought out Rickon, played his little game and Jon threw all the plans out the window and just started charging.  Sansa's politicking behind the scenes is the only reason Jon is still alive.  Jon understands the White Walkers, but Sansa knows that Cersei is the most petty, vindictive and psychotic person in Westeros.  Her conversation with Jaime last night proves how psychotic she is.  Her son "abandoned" them (you know after his mother slaughtered a thousand people or so on his watch purely out of spite) and she has an army without a goal.  She doesn't know what she wants, she just knows that she wants to strike.  I can very easily see her blowing up the wall if it helps kill Tyrion for example.  Yeah but something that Jon didn't/doesn't recognize is the madness of Ramsey and Cersei.  Logically the Game of Thrones doesn't matter because of the threat of the White Walkers, but Cersei will not give two shits about that in pursuit of her insane and misguided vengeance and power grab.  She will fight a kamikaze-like battle if she is pushed to it. Por que no los dos?Yeah, if Sansa had been sent home after Ned's death, and inherited the North, would she have made a reliable warden of the North for Joffrey? I think not. Sansa was advising caution because those children may not like Jon after their families had died fighting against him.      I mean, being homeless and removed from your ancestral homes seems a bit physically abusive as much as emotionally traumatizing, no?Sansa did have good advice and if they were in a time of peace and did not have a pressing issue like the army of the dead approaching than Sansa's advice would most likely be the best choice.  

Since you would be raising up new families that will be extremely loyal and that would help solidify that loyalty.

However, one issue that I think people maybe overlooking that Jon sees is that fact that he has to keep the North united and strong in order to fight against the WW and Army of the Dead.  If Jon strips their rights and gives the lands to new families that could cause some major issues in those lands.  The people there that have lived under one families rule will have strong ties of loyalty. 

Putting new families in could cause resistance groups to pop up that are loyal to the previous Lords of the land.  There could even be possible subversion to overthrow the new Lords.  This would weaken the north with in fighting which would make the defense fall losing the war to the WW and Army of Dead.  By keeping the Karstarks and Umbers in place they will ensure loyalty from the new lords because you show mercy while also keeping the strength of those lands and people.  Making your fighting force stronger and more effective to combat the incoming invasion.Who would they give the castles to?

Barely any houses helped Jon and most of them died. Also, yeah in a vacuum its a bad political decision to forgive your enemies for treachery, but theres context here.

If they were in KL playing politics Sansa would be 100% right, but what value is there in displacing multiple large families right before the beginning of an apocalyptic event? How does the Hornwoods taking Last Hearth help them against the White Walkers? They're already loyal to Jon anyways.The problem with that logic is the only people who really fought in the battle of the bastards were the windings, house Mormont and a few other off shoots. The rest sat in their castles (it's probably my biggest problem with the show, the North Forgot).I think the learning curve for everyone other than Jon understanding how truly existential the WW threat is will be a consistent point of contention in his leadership this season. It's so painfully clear how unaware the Northern/Vale lords are of the scope of the impending threat because they keep getting bundled up in petty House Politics instead of making every decision with one rule: "Does this move make us more or less prepared for the WW threat?" If they're factoring in anything else, it's because they just don't understand the threat. Very frustrating as a viewer who's seen everything. But, as with the real world, people never truly understand until they see/feel it for themselves. I feel like this is going to have a huge impact on the season...There's gonna be a lot of misenterpreting, or even just different interpretations, depending on what the characters mean to people. Don't forget the audience for this show is very young now that it's become pop culture phenomenon, so quality of discussion will dipI'm pretty sure Edmure got sent to Casterly Rock after the siege of river run, could be mixing up show and book though > It was the chubby guy offering food to her (a stranger)

I didn't expect to see him in it. He was pretty good in *This Is England* and its spin-offs.They had all taken the poison before the red wedding dialogue.Frey men? What?Even then she was a wee bit discriminating. She saved Walder's young wife (or daughter?) from drinking the wine. I haven't had sympathy for a single Frey male in the entire series. They are arsewipes. I've had sympathy for most of the women, they seem just as stuck as the Frey prisoners for the most part.

Edit: I'm going to have to reread! I forgot about some of the better Freys apparently.Say my family loses a war to the Starks and I'm taken as an hostage like Theon. Unfortunately for me, they become unhappy about actions taken by my family and my head comes off. Is there a trial? Does anyone even bring up the fact that I myself did nothing whatsoever to contribute to my family misbehaviour? Not really. When Robert orders Dany murdered, Ned understands that even if he objects to the murder, he, as hand of the king, bears some responsibility for the act. Hence he resigns rather than be a part of it. The belief in collective guilt is well established in GRRM's world. 

Meereen collectively crucified more than a hundred children as a response to the slave uprising instead of asking for terms or meeting in battle. She acted quickly and chose to make a symbolic gesture showing the life of each slave child was worth the same as the life of the masters. But she regrets it almost straight away. 

Tyrion destroyed a large portion of Stannis's fleet with wildfire. Is he mad? I'd say ruthless in a cruel world. Not so different from each other.Murder isn't forbidden in Vaes Dothrak, just blades. And murder is forbidden pretty much everywhere, execution is different from murder. Not disagreeing with your overall point, just clarifying some details!His morals and convictions aside regarding forced marriages, Jon's not thinking about the long term politics of this. He's literally just looking to unite the North in time to repel a massive invasion. Pretty sure he also knows that most houses aren't going to survive what's about to happen next.Not if he has to force an underage girl into it, no.

Besides, a bad and poorly thought out arranged marriage is one of the things that got us to where we are in the series. Aerys and his sister-wife, Rhaegar and Elia, Cersei and Robert, Ramsay and Sansa, etc.There's a difference between now and then. Ramsay held Winterfell, so it had to be retaken. Jon doesn't care about Kings Landing. Cersei may be a threat, but she's not *the* threat.Cersei isn't really a threat to the north tho, she isn't getting an army past the neck in winter. And if she gets ships Dany is more of a pressing threat for her to deal with. Even if said ships land an army in the north it wont get anywhere in winter either, the winter and the northmen will then promptly slaughter them.

And Ghost (fuck you cgi budget), should be enough to protect Winterfell from assassins. See season one Summer T.T

Cersei has the remains of an army and facing enemies on all sides. Jon doesn't care about Kings Landing, he just wants the North to survive what's coming for everyone. The second Cersei leaves Kings Landing with ant force, Dany will strike.Cersei is not a threat to the north. It doesn't matter if she's mad. Logistically, she has no chance in hell of doing anything. It's winter. How is she going to get past Moat Cailin, which has never been taken from the South by any army, in the middle of winter? If she even gets that far. First she has to get through the Riverlands, which will be filled with unruly lords now that the Freys are dead. Let's say she's the first person in history to get past Moat Cailin, then. It's hundreds of more miles of marching to Winterfell, in the dead of winter. People and horses will be freezing to death daily by the dozens. And forget the cold. How will this army be fed? With the crops of the locals? Once again, it's winter. There are no crops out in the fields to be pillaged. Her army will starve to death before it gets an eighth of the way to Winterfell, and if it doesn't it will freeze to death. Then there's all those Northern houses besides Moat Cailin, who are used to the climate and fighting in it, who have granaries stocked with food, and who are highly motivated to fight for their land and prove themselves to their king. (especially the ones who did not help with the Battle of the Bastards) Then let's say she beats all of the odds and makes it to Winterfell. Now what? Winterfell is well stocked with foods It has double walls, eighty and a hundred feet high. Let's see her try and siege that when her army has no supplies. And some other northern house will come up from behind her and smash her while she's camped outside the walls trying to starve 'em out. 

Oh, and there's the small matter that Cersei's army will already be split in two or three or even four parts. And it was an already diminished army, after the War of the Five Kings. As an aside, if you're not using those shells when you have Tacos Gringos, you are missing out. Such ease. Much taste.Did you see the children? They looked afraid to be there and completely willing to follow Jon and not repeat what their fathers did.small price to pay imo when the price of treason is death. They could have been wards or something. She didn't say let's throw them out to the cold.I'm pretty sure it's also just common practice not to totally strip a House of its lands+rights because of the instability it causes. The Boltons rebelled several times before and yet still remained one of the most powerful Houses in the North, for example. Probably why so many Westerosi noble families have survived for so long.In the books he'll be in transit to Casterly Rock. In the show, near the end of last season when Walder Frey is talking to Jamie he mentioned that Edmure is back in his dungeon. Oh, I knew he looked familiar! Yeah, that was just gloating, not a way to exclude innocent Freys. I don't think Robb's loyal Frey squires, who were specifically excluded from the Red Wedding, made an appearance in the show, but if they did, Arya probably killed them too.He means Frey soldiers.  The people in the room with Arya were Frey lords, trusted before to execute the Red Wedding.

Arya ends up bonding with Lannister men/soldiers later in the episode.  Maybe she walks away next episode, maybe she kills them all after she decides her need for vengeance includes them.  Or maybe that guy won't stop singing and she decides to kill them all.Even Perwyn and Olyvar Frey?Only Frey you get to know is Walder and two of his sons,most of them did participate in the Red weeding but some were forced to do it and those who refused were put aside.The show likes to make scenes like this  , the murdering done by the Freys and Lannisters is bad but every time a Stark kills someone it's ok,it's  only revenge.Ned was the most honourable person in whole Westeros, as Master Aemon said most of men are not. 


>Tyrion destroyed a large portion of Stannis's fleet with wildfire. Is he mad?

You're comparing using wildfire for war to terror act of burning people and cities because you're feel like right

Underage in westeros? Literal babies are involved in these arrangements at times iirc, it's not set in 2017. 

> but she's not *the* threat.

thats the attitude Sansa is upset with because it is stupid.  Robb and Ned both got tunnel vision and ignored *real threats* despite the fact the weren't the main threat. Cersei is a real threat, shes cornered and has proven that will *do whatever she has to* to eliminate an enemy.  In the ASOIAF universe there is no such thing as **the threat** there are always multiple threats.Did you see the size of that fleet? There's nobody in Westeros who should feel safe from that, especially when helmed by an unhinged mad woman. People seem very desperate to discredit Sansa all over this thread when she was talking a shit load of sense this episodeFor sure, and the WW are more dangerous as a force, but Cersei is also a snake.  She only mentioned a couple of people by name in the last episode...Sansa and Tyrion seem to be her main enemies at this point.  I think she wants to make an example of them both or at least see them go down with the ship.  It's entirely understandable why Sansa behaves as she does.

Also, I don't think Cersei is in as weak a position as people think. The north is decimated with Winter coming on, and the WW approaching, Cersei has some control over the Riverlands (although I think we might see Blackfish make an appearance) Casterly Rock of course is controlled by Cersei as well.  She will have a fleet of ships (possibly more than Dany) and even though Dorne and the Reach are out there, they are also weakened.  She's in a tight spot, but can still do some real damage if she aims her sights in the right places.  Obviously Dany holds the upper hand here, but my guess is that she will be weakened significantly in the coming episodes as she is OP right now.You're forgetting one thing: Westeros suddenly now has teleportation.

Source: Jorah the Explorer's appearance in Old Town, the Iron Fleet magically being rebuilt and sailed over to King's Landing, the season 6 ending shot of Dany's fleets.I think you thinking about a standard military march towards Winterfell.  What if she doesn't strike Winterfell, but manages some other dastardly plan to mentally and emotionally hurt the Starks?  What if she uses the Iron Fleet and strikes at some points on the coastlines?  What if she gets a dragon?! These are all just far-fetched suppositions, but the idea is that these kinds of people are crazy and will find a way to hurt Sansa and Jon against all odds.  This has been proven to Sansa time and time again.  I agree that her lack of concrete ideas or specific insight is quite annoying at times, but the general warning is a good one.   > Tacos Gringos

adopting this into my vernacular ASAP. TYThat's just it though. They are timid children, and as such they are likely susceptible to advisors who hold a grudge against the Starks.

Clearly the children aren't going to jeopardize the North by throwing a futile fit when an army of the dead is right around the corner. But that does not mean Sansa is wrong in an isolated sense. So even though the Umbers and Karstarks probably aren't going to pull any shit, Jon's loyal helpers *definitely* wouldn't.       I read that in Stannis the Mantis' voiceWorked really well with Theon. What was she suggesting be done with them after stripping them of their homes and titles? Take them on as servants? Well, not even all Freys were invited, Arya/Walder said that she/he invited those Freys who "meant a damn thing". And if I remember correctly from the books then it's not common to invite squires to feasts anyway. So theoretically she could have invited only those who she knew were close enough to Walder and as such were most probably complicit in the Red Wedding.That singer was obviously in love with her body, she should have been more cautious before drinking alcohol given by a bunch of soldiers.I don't think think she'll kill them. They shared their food with her and I think her honor of meat and meed will keep her to it. There is only one Frey lord?> that guy

Ed Sheeran you mean?

Also, one of the soldiers states something along the lines of "my mother taught me that if you're nice to people, they will return the favor." I think that's a pretty evident lime to what happens in the future.

e: a letterStevron was a good man, but then he was probably murdered by his grandson, so mixed on the Frey account.Well that's not how it's always done. We saw last night that Jon pardoned the Karstarks and Umbers and let them keep their castles. 

It would have been silly to give them over to new families, because that's exactly what Ramsey did to the Starks. "You won't bend the knee so your shit's now his shit."

It shows some self awareness.And as I pointed out, it doesn't always work out. Besides, there's always been an idea of what's too young.Why are you acting like Jon would do something like that if Sansa didn't want it. It's completely out of character. But Ned was killed because of Littlefinger, whom Sansa now thinks she can control. Jon avoided making Robb's mistake of alienating bannermen in the name of justice. I'm not sure who's the blind one here.
There will be no kingdoms left to squabble over ruling if the Others kill everybody. What fleet, Dany's? Euron's? Cersei doesn't have many ships at the moment.

Sansa doesn't have any information about what's going on in KL, she just knows Cersei is dangerous. In plot armor terms Cersei is a threat but in terms of what's known, she's not. The Lannisters don't have the resources to march north and fight in winter, their allies the Freys are dead, and they're stuck between Dorne, Highgarden, and Dany's dragons.A very good point.

Other than assassins trying to beat winter by sailing North is the only real viable option Cersei has to strike against the Starks. 

One more thing to consider...if those young guys sitting around the campfire represent the current make-up of the current Lannister army then the soldiers clearly have no desire or will to fight.Cersei is a snake, but Arya is a mongoose. That's what her purpose is, to prevent Cersei from acting out against the North again. She says "enemies to the North" when they mention King Jon, but completely forget that Arya is *still alive* and coming for her. Not even Sansa knows she's still alive.Also anyone can walk around Moat Cailin now it seemsAh, of course. How could that slip my mind? But at those moments cersei had sansa in her reach. After sansa fleein from kingslanding cersei didnt do anything to hurt the starks did she? From there the only thing that fucked her up was little finger and the boltons.Fair enough. Well, once those kids see the White Walkers, I don't think anything those advisors can will dissuade them from listening to Jon for the rest of their lives.Or, offscreen Jon takes those two into his office and tells him one of his loyal knights will be going home with each of them with a small group of their people to act as Castellean and the implication being for now to listen to those advisors.

I think that is the best way to handle it. Yes, his captors were very kind, everyone likes to remind him.Presumably, treating them the exact same as every other non-noble family in the kingdom. Yeah, exactly. The young soldier actually uses the term "a stranger", and they offered guest right. After leveling the score with the Freys, I think Arya deserved this moment, wherein she could remember what it's like to be young, and laugh, and see the human side of the war-- that the small folk fight the wars for the lords, but have their own things they'd rather be doing, families, etc. I think Arya will probably carry on with this mission to KL until one other thing happens, then she'll realize she should just go home-- the one thing those boys want more than anything, but can't have.I mean, at this point hasn't Walder basically filled the lesser keeps and shit with his own family? I would be somewhat surprised if the Twins and surrounding lands have any lords who aren't related to Walder Frey.I expect they mean lordlings, as in Walder's family, not actual lords.>because that's exactly what Ramsey did to the Starks.

No it wasn't. 


> "You won't bend the knee so your shit's now his shit."

Do you think if the kids refused to bend the knee to Jon they will still have their castles? I don't think so. 
Nothing always works out.

For bedding yes they usually waited for flowering 12 or 13  (aka too young modern Western culture), and in the books Tyrek Lannister, married an infant before he went missing.Because he is king and the ruler and she did not say she would be against the middle ground of both of their ideas. 
 
What makes you think Sansa is opposed to the institution of arranged marriages just because she was essentially kidnapped and put into horrible situations by enemies. There will be no one to stop the others if Jon underestimates Cersei and gets killed..We know that, she doesn't. As far as Jon knows Cersei is still allied with the Reach and with Dorne, which brings them boats men and supplies. 

Even with our supreme knowledge of what's going on, the Lannisters still control the Riverlands. Their troops are keeping peace at The Twins, which is at the doorstep of The Neck and the North. Last time we saw Moat Caitlin it had a flayed man flying above it. Has Jon sent troops to rectify this yet? Or is the last defence between an empty, weakened North controlled by his fiercest enemies? Yes there's snow but we've seen two armies march through snow before. It would be crazy, but that's Cersei, crazy like a fox

Like Sansa said, everyone who has ever underestimated Cersei is dead. The only person who isn't is Tyrion, and even with three dragons and 100000 Dothraki do you think he'll underestimate her? I hope she turns around and goes home. Nymeria is supposed to be running around in the Riverlands, so maybe she'll run into her. Arya killing Cersei would be unsatisfying and is probably not going to happen, so I don't want them to waste time by having her go south and try.Exactly.Remember how her first arranged marriage went? The one she wanted with all her heart?Littlefinger is completely useless if he can't get them any information about what's happening in the south. It looks like Cersei is destined to end up with Euron, at which point she'll be a major threat again.For the love of god, please find out Jon Snow and Sansa are in WF and pay them a visit Arya! It's been too long.Don't think they got married. 

Worked for her parents so she has had good examples in her life. That is what marriage is in her culture.

And regardless him is now 'playing' politics, I don't think he would intentionally miss an opportunity to do the right thing politically to because his sister found a common practice distasteful especially when humanity is at stake.Well I'm sure Littlefinger knows what's going on. But what Littlefinger knows and what Littlefinger tells people are two wildly different boxes of frogs. 

The last Stark to trust Littlefinger was Ned, and that didn't end too well for himSansa thinks she can manipulate him now. I don't see that going well for her.Gendry has already shadow-usurped the Iron-Throne. Cersei just hasn't figured it out yet.Legally/politically she's got more legitimacy as a Baratheon. Her claim lies in that she's the only close living relative to the past three kings. Everyone knows she's not got any loyalty to the Baratheons in the same way that everyone knows North Korea isn't a democracy. Doesn't stop them from calling it that. Too lazy to change it/people don't careIf she were to take that down it would cause a rebellion no doubt  Especially since Tommen just died. She was half Stag according to marriage. They changed the winterfell sigil back to stark immediately after Ramsay died so it's definitely not because they're lazy.  They made a new part about Oldtown, changing a sigil wouldn't be that hardBut Tommen is a traitor, remember?She's already got the Lannister Lion above the Iron Throne, clearly there's no Baratheon influence in Westeros anymore. They just included a new location in the opening sequence and they've changed the sigil on Winterfell three times now so I don't see why changing another sigil is so hardEveryone who could possibly rebel is already rebelling though. They already had a Stark model made though. For the change OP suggested they'd have to make a new sigil for King's Landing and that takes eeefffooorrrtThe Stormlands seem to be pretty quiet at the moment.Not nearly as much effort as it would've taken to make the Oldtown model for the openingBecause they have no leadership, any rebellion by them would be unorganized and chaotic unless if they just joined Dany, which I guess is possible My biggest concern is the possibility that Brienne is loosely based on Joan of Arc, and will die a fiery death.I wrote a novel. If you're interested in ASOIAF analysis through the lens of real history, the YouTube channel GoTAcademy made a lot of excellent videos in their early days.

My personal two theories are as such:

1. Sansa becomes queen. How this happens I'm sketchy on, but she's a good political operative and has a lot of different connections to nobility in Kings Landing through having lived there and to a lesser extent through her marriage to Tyrion. She's the most Elizabeth Tudor-esque of any character. It could work. Probably not. GoTAcademy has a pretty decent video about this that I remember liking, but I can't recall any of the major points they made.

I like theory two better:

2. ASOIAF is a story in 2-3 acts depending on how you chop it up. I think the first act is the one based loosely off of English history. From what it looks like and a lot of really interesting blogs I've read (I've done none of the leg work on this myself), Act 2/3 is gonna be loosely based off Ragnarok. So the first part of ASOIAF is a vaguely fantastic fake historical story based on real history and it builds to a true high fantasy story based on real mythology.

TL;DR: Sansa will fulfill history as an Elizabeth Tudor analogue. Or the historical similarities will start bleeding into mythological similarities as the story progresses to incorporate more high fantasy elements.GRRM is a bit of a Richard III fan, I think he loosely based Stannis off of him? As such I don't think we'll get a parallel ending; I believe the Yorkists (Starks and co.) are the ones who ultimately come out on top. Just because you're inspired by history doesn't mean you have to follow it, GRRM is a Yorkist at heart so he'll have the ending he wants.For me that element of history was already partially incorporated by the Lannisters still planning to marry Joffery and Sansa even after Ned's death and things were already pretty loosely tied to the Wars of the Roses. If anything the marriage to stamp out any other claims to the throne will be Jon and Dany in my eyes.Daenerys Targaryen is Henry Tudor. Both of them were exiled as a child but eventually came back and took the throne with army right after the civil war. 

I think Daenerys will try to marry Jon for alliance and annexation.I like both these theories but here's the problem: GRRM stated that the ending would be bittersweet. He has also said that the core characters are Jon, Arya, Bran, Dany and Tyrion, (with the accent on Tyrion?). I've taken that to mean that everyone else is fair game.I think Tyrion is based on richard the third more so than stannis isThat's my principal issue with the Sansa theory. I'm not sure how set in stone everything from that letter is, but it would seem strange if the core characters changed. So Sansa isn't marked for death, but isn't guaranteed to be alive by the end either. I don't think the Iron Throne will matter much in the end, so I don't think GRRMs letter destroys the theory. It does make it seem quite a bit less likely. On that point I agree. 

As far as the bittersweet endings go, there is still a lot of room for bittersweetness in either scenarios I think. Sansa ascending the throne would mean the deaths or inability to rule on the part of almost every other contender. Sansa is so low on the line of succession that there would have to be a gigantic amount of death to warrant it. Jon and Dany could have higher destinies than the throne which require them to venture off the map at the end of the series like Frodo in Lord of the Rings. Tyrion is politically not viable as a king but could bolster the legitimacy of Sansa and become her advisor. Arya as a younger sibling would fall after Sansa in any succession crisis. Bran I doubt will have any interest in a throne by the end. 

It seems unlikely scenario 1 would happen, but I like to think about it sometimes.

Depending on the analysis you look at, the Ragnarok similarities are either nearly set up or already underway and leave room for those five characters to still be 'alive' at the end. ASOIAF/Ragnarok comparisons are pretty cool reads if you have time.Shakespearean or historical? I can see the associations between Shakespeare's Richard and Tyrion, but historically they have very different characters, morals, and traits. Historical, though with some bias as the winners write history. Richard was accused of killing his nephews, was said to be misshapen (although after they dug him up they said he had scoliosis so there's some truth to that I guess) and shakespeare did write a play about Richard that pretty much demonised him and the same thing happened to Tyrion in Braavos, although I can't remember if that is only in the show. After reading up I see a lot of him in Stannis as well, so I guess there is more than one influence in Westeros for Richard.Richard wasn't accused of murdering the princes in the tower until after the Battle of Bosworth; most people blamed the Duke of Buckingham, and he was never described as malformed until Tudor propaganda post Warbeck conspiracy.  Tyrion could definitely be aligned with Shakespeare's Richard, but  factually they are very different. 
Richard was stern, sober, and had a rigid moral code. He abhorred drunkeness and whoring, things his brother, the king loved. He had a plain, weak wife who produced only one sickly child. He claimed the throne because he believed Elizabeth Woodville's children were bastards. He was a brilliant military commander as young as 17. 

Shakespeare's Richard: Tyrion inspo. 
Real Richard: Stannis Inspo. Makes more sense like that I guessHe can't prove his identity definitively at the gate. He has to demonstrate that it's to Edd's benefit that he be let in. Bran does this by showing off his psychic powers and telling Edd things that he shouldn't know.You can see Edd really doesn't like his job as a lord commander.Also the writters have become too lazy.I thought it was Bran saying it doesn't matter, he's alive and only the dead need to be kept outEdd does know that Bran is crippled and Edd also knows that if they were Wildlings that they would have just killed him instead of dragging him on a sled for forty seven years.Yeah, that was lame and didn't really "prove" anything. It was pure exposition to remind the casual viewer who Edd is. Brand could've/should've said something personal about Jon, or Edd himself that no one else could've known :/ Sadly, the writers didn't learn anything from last season and seem to be content to make the dialogue as simplistic and uninteresting as possible. Makes you appreciate GRRMs book-based dialogue from the first few seasons though. >"How do I know you're Bran Stark?"

>"You cry when you masturbate"

>"Let him in"He was going to let them in anyway whether they were wildlings or not since less possible wights is good. It wasn't contingent on them being highborn or westerosi. But when they say they're highborn and that one of them is Jon Snow's brother it's natural to be a little curiousDolorous Edd is that late night shift manager that's one more customer complaint away from burning the whole place down. I really feel for him, he's naturally suspicious as hell, and Bran was just like "really? you wanna do this now?"Yeah, I think the point was "There's much more important shit to worry about than verifying my identity.""There's an apocalypse coming and you're worried about a cripple?" was what he's trying to get at. He wasn't proving who he was he was more or less saying "you know what's coming now let me in to fuck".Apparently a lot of people do cause his video for "Shape of You" has over a billion plays. 

But once again I spoke for myself and my group I didn't do a survey of the world. 

And at our party people knew who Ed Sheeren was. 

Sorry that upsets you so much. I'm starting to think your just an Ed Sheeren fan who's upset that I criticized his "acting".

Lmao but like I said you're not gonna change my opinion. You can assume what you want about me and my friend group. But we're still going to say that Ed stood out in Westeros. 

But it seems like you're just looking for an argument. How did eurons fleet get so big? So quick as wellI was intrigued to see Euron address the Iron Throne by himself -- no advisers / guards / hangers-on.  Call it confidence, arrogance, or craziness.

(I seem to recall when reading Hemingway in high school that a competent character of his would show up alone, whereas incompetent ones would be in groups, more incompetent = bigger group.)I get the feeling Euron is gonna get the twenty goodman treatment. Hes somehow gonna get rid of all Dany's ships.How in seven hells hasn't Cersei's hair grown out longer? Or did she intentionally keep it that length?
This argument assumes that Sansa knows Littlefinger put a knife to her fathers throat... Like maybe a maester saw it happen in the throne room, reported it to Oldtown, who then told it to the Winterfell Maester... but why doesn't Jon have Littlefinger beheaded for his part in the death of Ned?

We clearly see Jon not fault the sins of the father on the son Ned Umber.  We see Jon hold the sinner responsible for their sins Melisandre.  But Littlefinger gets to trapes around Wintefell as if no harm, no foul?  Unfair!Glad they finally used that song from book 3.
HOLY CRAP BE SUNDAY NOW!!!This is wrongfully getting blocked by mods, but I'll post it here, because a bot told me to:

http://ew.com/tv/2017/07/17/game-of-thrones-season-7-premiere-ratings-smash-records/

>"The worldwide hit series delivered an incredible 16.1 million viewers for the highly anticipated kick off to its penultimate season across all HBO platforms (including repeats and streaming and DVR)."Can someone remind me (couldn't find anything in a quick internet search), what is show-Jamie's official role now? He is no longer Lord Commander of the Kingsguard, right? He's not even on the Kingsguard any more, right? But did he reclaim any rights to Casterly Rock? What exactly does he *do* now? Really thought the dialogues and staging were incredibly subpar, with some scenes at the edge of being straight out of a cartoonish production.

It makes everyone suddenly remember that without George Martin as a base for the script, Benioff remains the writter for Troy and Xmen:Wolverine, while Weiss is a failed videogame adaptation screenwriter.

It's not up HBO standards, and certainly not up the book's either. Favorite thing: David Bradley's performance as Arya pretending to be Walder Frey

Least favorite thing: Everything to do with Euron Greyjoy: his outfit, his character, his dialogue. If you're going to turn Euron into a dumber version of Captain Jack Sparrow, don't keep his ominous dialogue, it just sounds weird.
Huuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuuugghhhhhhhhhhghhhhh. 

Ever scene makes me irk. The characters are inconsistent and it all feels overblown, like a parody of itself.Why did they not burn those bodies?So, are we all in agreement that the "priceless" gift Euron is going to bring Cersei is *sob* a dragon?I felt like it was a good return but it was so contrived in parts. 

The Sam story was entirely predictable. The Arya soldier scene was very heavy handed. You can add depth by saying 'not everyone against you in a war is bad' but the level of 'perfect' the soldiers had. Young, good, with families, stories to tell. It just felt forced.

The Hound stuff felt contrived too but I felt like it was pretty damn dark and sad enough to actually work over it.

Scenes which worked best for me were the John ones, arguing and both sides making good points. John was right, so was Sansa. That's good IMO. Jaime and Cersei were also good.

Lets hope the next episode is a bit better. People seem to find it weird that no one has claimed Dragonstone, but I didn't see it as odd.

Please feel free to correct me as it's been a long time since I've read the books, but I thought Stannis always resented being given Dragonstone because of how barren the land is. Aside from Dragonglass, which will become important but isn't high value yet, why would anyone shove their already bedraggled army out to some rock in the sea? It's good as a fortress and area of protection, which will be useful to Dany, but otherwise, I don't see it as particularly valuable. Other armies are active in other areas, preoccupied with other battles.

Again, please do correct me if I've overlooked some facts from the series, but I think it makes perfect sense for no one to be there.Did anyone else notice the valyrian dagger in Sam's book? It was the dagger used in the Bran murder attempt. The knife that started it all.Was that a picture of Little Finger's valyrian steel dagger Catspaw, in the book Sam was reading?All I took note on was Littlefinger supposedly being strangled to death. Die, Baelish, die!!I think the purpose of those Lannister soldiers being nice was so that we feel bad next week when Nymeria and her pack tear them to pieces.I did like how the Lannister soldiers all had Essex-y accents; juxtaposes their class position quite well.Jaime said Stannis left Dragonstone unoccupied, so why the hell didn't the Lannisters go and occupy it!1'w/--1I'm surprised no one has mentioned Bran's ability to warg into giant wights, kind of a big deal IMOThe increase in budget makes every location,costume,set piece looks more epic.Makes me wish they remake the first 3 Seasons.  
Hopefully this series get a reboot in my lifetime.Did anyone notice the dragonbone hilt valryian steel dagger in the book Sam was flicking through? trying to find mention of it in the comments here but I'm on mobile and no ctrl f.

Anyway, it was there. What's it all about?So I am totally in love with the Brienne/Tormund scenes. When he tells Pod "you're a lucky man" it isn't because Pod gets hit by Brienne per se. In his culture in order for a woman to pay attention to you, you have to be strong. You have to steal your woman. So he basically sees this weak man being beaten up by a strong woman and it just doesn't compute. He says he is lucky because this woman is even spending the time to help make him stronger. Not because he wants to take Pods place but because she is paying attention to Pod at all. Don't get me wrong. Tormund is totally smitten with Brienne, but I think he would get a run for his money if he tried to "steal" her. Sorry this is all over the place. I'm not a great writer. Or I could be wrong and Tormund wants Brienne to get all sorts of punchy on him.They have GOT to give better lines to Euron. We already know he is the villain of the story, he doesn't need to keep using the word "murder". That's what villains do. What are his goals? Where does he see himself in 5 years? Show his visionary side, jeez. I've long thought that Jon and Danaerys will need to meet to save the north. And now I think we know how it goes. Did Sam not just discover a mine of Dragonglass? The next scene was Dany. Am I the only one who didn't find the Lannister soldier scene all wholesome and cute whatsoever? They had a rapey vibe from the start, they are trying to loosen her up and throw her off with stories about their moms and wives, getting her drunk. The dude literally looks at his crotch and does a lil stretch after saying "strangers will be kind to you back" and Arya looks visibly repulsed. She could have rode by them but put herself in danger. She is baiting them - one of their faces/uniforms will be very useful to her getting close to the queen. Next episode all of you with any hope of Arya's humanity will be in for a surprise lmaoNobody seems to be asking...WTF was that scene where Tarly was taking empty food trays from prisoners(?) the creepy arm dude literally asked if daenerys has arrived yet![deleted]Some things overshadowing the ok parts:

* long-drawn speeches to future corpses never made any sense to me, if they would've saved the reveal of Arya being at the Twins for this episode, maybe that would've had another kind of impact
* I really loved the subtle costumes of the early seasons, we've entered video game villain territory with some of the choices in this episode, worst offenders being Bobby Strongs armor and Euron's sleazy outfit
* somehow I find it so boring that a simple "hardcounter" for the White Walkers is such a big plot point, a big stack of made up things that works against other made up things doesn't really excite me at all
* just silly things: the bonny Lannister bois, the Armada, Clegane digging a grave for people he robbed in S4While I am interested in seeing Bran and Jon reunite, his silly arm tattoo from Night King in the vision will obviously contribute to the wall falling down. I can't imagine this is at all similar to how it comes down in the books, and frankly it's just silly to think about. There should not be this much of a physical connection between the worlds that the Three Eyed Raven and now Bran coexist in and frankly it's a disservice to fans to say "Night King touched Bran in a vision, so now the magical wall that has stood for 8000+ years can come down." Surely if it was this simple, the Night King would've done it before. Jorah Mormont is now a lusty Argonian.anyone else find that Arya's face-removal is a little too Scooby-Doo reveal?* What kind of crazy ass relationship would happen between Cersei & Euron? That would be the ultimate power struggle. Kinda dying to see it. 
* Euron's gift to Cersei is either going to be Tyrion, Ellaria Sand, or DRAGON HORN
* Arya's touching moment with the Lannister crew is totally going to end with throat slitting, isn't it? As long as it gets rid of goddamn Ed Sheeran...
* When will Arya & the Hound reunite? He'll be shocked by her cold killin' ways
* WHAT DID TORMUND SAY TO BRIENNE?
* Is Arya's storyline melding with Lady Stoneheart's? Is she gonna hang Brienne? That would dampen any reunion with Sansa...
* Where's Melisandre? 
* That fucking wall is totally going to tumble.Starting to think Stannis won't survive in the books Not a fan of the new Cersei Queensguard outfit. Helmet just makes it look like the wearer has half a head. They've changed it for the general Lannister soldiers too.

And Euron's wardrobe wasn't great. Eyeliner and a washed up band member uniform, really? Yes he's meant to be quirky, but at least for such an important meeting have him in Greyjoy garb.I like how the Lannister soldiers are all 20-something male feminists who just let an enemy of the state wander into their lines and immediately start sharing their provisions. No wonder they're losing. Show's a fucking joke at this point lol.Sansa is one of my favourite characters in both the books and the show, but seeing her accuse Ned of being stupid (which isn't entirely incorrect) and losing his head for it came off as a bit hypocritical, given that Sansa's decision to blab to Cersei is one of the reasons why he lost his head.Did anyone else think that Euron looked/sounded really out of place? Like the lead singer of an Alternative Rock band was transported to medieval times?'The Wall has stood through it all...'

It's coming down this season.Really nice surprise seeing Tom Turgoose amongst the Lannister soldiers. Even with all the spoilers & rumours I read about this season, somehow that one got by me.

The only thing that could've made Arya's job on the Twins a more ridiculous cold open is if, as she turned to walk down the aisle, she said, "Nymeria, come." Then she'd Faceless-assassin-parkour-vault onto Nymeria's back and ride off with the wolfpack through the Riverlands.

Nikolaj's face through this episode was priceless, but also [WHY ARE YOU STILL ATTACHED TO HER?](http://i.imgur.com/MdVsbx6.gifv)Jorah was talking to one of the few people that could tell him the details about his father's death. I just wanted to point that out.I loved the part where Jon called up Alys Karstark and Ned Umber to pledge allegiance to House Stark. That look of relief on their faces when they felt that not everyone hates themI feel like Jamie is sensing Cersei's madness approaching. 

"And when your tears have drowned you, the valonqar shall wrap his hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you" 

IT'S GONNA HAPPEN. Even though not a big fan of Daenerys, was really exhilarating to see her finally set foot in Westeros. Imprinting the palm of her hands was also pretty symbolic, like a medieval Paladin laying claim to what he truly believes is his.      
If she would've sat on the throne, it would have been too cliche. So really glad she doesn't do that, instead she goes straight to the planning room. No comfy couches for this QueenMy biggest problem, why was dragonstone unguarded completely? Free access for Dany to the Easternmost seaport of westeros with zero resistance?* I didn't care for the Arya can be anyone, actually I think Arya has had the weakest plot for the last couple of seasons. 

* I enjoyed Sansa V. Jon, someone needs to advise Jon as he has already proven himself prone to the same mistakes Ned and Rob committed. 

* I think that was our first bird eye view of Winterfell?

* I actually felt bad for Cersei when Jamie mentions Tommen. Some excellent acting from Lena Heady there, the way her face crumbles for a second. I think Tommen is the one who torments her the most. 

* Euron was a bit much but an improvement on last season. Also it's nice to see Jaime as the outraged one since he used to be the boastful type. 

* the citadel was great, Broadbant's speech was my highlight of the episode. Also Jorah :o

* Ed Sheeran was blah but at least his fellow guardsman was cute and I focused on him. 

* Dany walking silently through Dragonestone shows how confident the show is these days. Besides the opening scene, I liked this episode more than all of s5/s6I fucking loved Daenerys's one line. Such a great ending to the episode. It gave me goosebumps.Nymeria or one of her gang watching over Hound and co, anyone ?An overlooked reference from the first scene: 

When Frey was giving his speech to his bannermen, he mentioned having this drink Arbor Gold instead of Dornish piss wine.  In the books this was a surefire hint that there was a plot occurring, and sure enough there was.

It's the little things.I can't tell if it's foreshadowing or fanservice having the Hound see a Mountain in the fire.Euron Greyjoy, King of the Iron Isles, the first storm and the last, owner of two good hands, and lead singer of the popular Westerosi band MetallicaI may have overlooked why Dragonstone had remained empty. Was no one really there to claim it before Dany? Don't try to take the last word, Lord Baelish, I'll just assume it was something clever.Book readers -- any idea what the "mountain shaped like an arrowhead" is referencing?I'm a pretty big book purist, but I thought tonight's episode was actually really good.

The writing, direction, and cinematography was great. Giant wights got a hearty "holy shit" from everyone in the room, the new costumes are fantastic, the humanizing of the Lannister soldiers was perfect, House Frey getting its comeuppance was also satisfying, though I wish the "House Frey civil war" theory would have came through. Might still in the books.

I have to rewatch it tomorrow when I'm sober, but I think this was a very solid season premiere. This episode had the most snarky comments in a long time. 
Sansa burning Baelish. The Hound saying anything. Euron dissing on Jaime. Jaime's snark at Cersei. Lady Lyanna Mormont being Lady Lyanna Mormont.

The only sass missing was Olenna.I thought it was a solid first episode but honestly surprised to see that Jaimie is only mildly irritated with Cersei. I mean she basically did what Aerys wanted to and Jaimie of all the people in Westeros should be furious. Instead hes just 'hey, what you doin baby?'. If the valanquor prophecy comes to fruition in the show , it might seem a bit sudden now.Arya can become anyone she kills now. Kill Ed Sheeran and kill Cersei as Ed Sheeran. So many possibilities!Overall, this is the first episode I've truly enjoyed from start to finish since the fourth season. I loved Jim Broadbent and Ed Sheeran's posse. 

Euron Greyjoy was far better than his appearance last season, and his banter with Jaime was great. The Hound/Brotherhood W/O Banners scene was great, a wonderful callback.  It was nice to see Lannister soldiers who weren't spawns of Satan, I was worried Arya was going to kill them just cause but they went the right direction with it (Stranger path). The Northern bantz were good, Jon Snow & Sansa Stark power struggle. The Edd made an appearance, which is nice. Sam's scenes felt a little long, but overall worked. Jorah's cameo was also nice.

**Only a few things that nagged at me.**

* 'Stannis told me about the dragonglass on dragonstone, but..' bit is one of the stupidest fucking things. A king told you he has a supply of dragonglass and you know dragonglass kills whitewalker....and you don't tell Jon? You just putter around with that information until you read it in a book and go 'ahh yeah...that'. It's just such a clear moment of 'The plot of the show didn't have time for this and it wasn't really relevant at the time so fuck it'

* 'Someone slaughtered the Freys, they certainly weren't any friends of ours'. Arya told that bitch to tell them The North Remembers. Some kind of Stark Loyalist should be prime suspect #1. Jesus Christ.

* Why is Dragonstone empty? It's not like the entire population fucked off with Stannis? Did they just abandon the place when he died? Wouldn't they just bend the knee to the Iron Throne now?

* Euron built a thousand ships in less than a season. Fucking splendid. Based on the age of Gilly's baby, 18-24months(?) they are the fastest ship builders in all of Westeros.

* Dany better not destroy that Stannis banner goddammit. It's like they wanted to give her a moment where she can tell Stannis to fuck off right in front of the viewers. (this is the pettiest and least important nitpick)

* Rather than angry Northerners and Stark/Tully loyalists killing the Freys, it's literally just Arya. Cult of the badass continues to irk me about this show. At least, it was a well done scene.
Didn't go to bed until 4 A.M. in order to see this one :-) Probably wasn't the best idea, given how little actually happened in the episode.

* I was most looking forward to Euron, given his relatively weak introduction and I'm really satisfied. I liked the actor's performance and it wasn't like the scene was *bad* in any way, but book!Euron has this almost tangible aura of danger and dread around him, in a way the show version just hasn't.
* Danaerys walking into Dragonstone in a long, wordless sequence was very nice.
* It could be fatigue, but the scenes at Winterfell didn't interest me at all, which seems like a problem, given that they had the most weight in terms of the largest conflict to come. I was almost getting annoyed at the dialogue between Sansa and Jon, but I can't quite put my finger on why.
* The scenes with the Hound remain among the best scenes in the series. Despite what their marketing and trailer departments seem to think, Game of Thrones is at its strongest when it's just a few people in a small room, experiencing and talking about consequences. 

Edit:

* I liked the "Hands of Gold" song and the humanizing of the Lannister soldiers. They did a fine job with that. Also nice that Ed Sheeran didn't really get any lines apart from the singing. Dude's not an actor and would probably have been too much of a distraction. 
* I liked the wide shots of the castles. They make the locations feel more tangible.Dragonstone was lacking in the stone dragons department 

Edit: Here is a lore friendly interpretation for reference  http://i.imgur.com/3m0q7qC.jpg Got up at 5:30AM to watch EP1, and I wasn't disappointed. This was a great episode all round.

Tbh I was very skeptical in the first few minutes, wondering what the hell was going on with Frey. I can't believe Arya never crossed my mind. 

Jamie's facial acting was brilliant and Cersei is bonkers. I'm on the fence about Euron. I'm very disappointed the CGI guys didn't add in the *Silence* as a distinctive flagship. Regarding Arya; I get the feeling that she's gonna turn around. I realize that she wants to kill the Queen, but that doesn't feel right. I believe that the only person who can kill her is Jamie. 

So is Euron's priceless gift to Cersei going to be a dragon? Every interaction Tormund has with Brienne is gold for me. 

I know some people think it's a bit too much, but honestly anytime Tormund makes that gurning smile at Brienne I laugh so much. Felt overall like a pretty typical GoT first episode, despite the decreased number of episodes. Deliberately paced, wrapped up some little loose ends from the end of the previous season, moved all the chess pieces into place, had a bunch of those "This is what this character is like in case you've forgotten"-type scenes for casual viewers, teased action vs. delivered action. I'm not complaining. It did a good job of it, but it was mostly table setting. The Hound scenes were the standouts in my mind. His character arc is really coming along nicely and Rory McCann is frigging fantastic.

Also holy *shit* is the new budget obvious. Go back and watch a few scenes from the pilot. This is what a drastically increased budget looks like.Initial thoughts:

- Not sure I like Arya's Faceless Men abilities. Makes her way too powerful and stretches believability. Where did she hide Walder's body? Did no one see her bake dudes into pies? But an epic opening scene nonetheless. 

- I like how Bran totally didn't answer Edd's question and everyone just moved on

- Well, so far it seems that Littlefinger driving a wedge between Sansa and Jon by manipulating Sansa doesn't seem to be working out. I'm glad cause that really seemed like a regression for Sansa's character - she's never wanted to rule and has never wanted power so it doesn't make sense for her to try and remove Jon from power. However, I thought the show did a good job in showing that while there may be some philosophical differences between Jon and Sansa, she recognizes that he should be the leader. I'm thinking Littlefinger will start to work on Jon going forward and it'll be interesting to see if Jon takes Sansa's advice and listens to her or if he doesn't and how that will cost him. 

- I love how slow on the uptake Brienne is re: Littlefinger. Yes Brienne, the greatest schemer in Westeros may want something. Nothing slips by you. 

- To this point, the show hasn't done a good enough job in establishing Euron as a dangerous guy. I think the major naval battle is coming next episode but I wish we had a better idea of just how fearsome show-Euron is. 

- Liked that pretty much the entire Dragonstone scene was wordless. Really got to appreicate how big of a moment this was for Dany. 

- A Day in the Life of Samwell Tarly was great. Poor Jorah. Will be interesting to see how those two interact as the season progresses. Jorah has to get out of that cell at some point and I'd imagine dragonglass will have somehing to do with it. 

- The Hound is definitely one of top 5 favorite characters. Every scene is gold and we even got a Gravedigger nod. Possible Cleganebowl foreshadowing! The Wall is, of course, coming down. 

Can't wait for next Sunday. 

Winter came for House Frey. Fucking awesome scene to start the season off.OH MY FUCKING LORD OF LIGHT

I spilled my hot breakfast coffee over myself and my laptop because of fucking JorahThe Hound saw a mountain in the fire....
🍗🍗🍗🎺🎺🎺FUCKING CONFIRMED 🎺🎺🎺🍗🍗🍗If we get a scene of Based Robett choking Smug Lyanna to death after one too many quips, I will personally pen an apology to D+D for ever questioning their direction with GoT. As far as I know, he is still the leader of the Lannister army.  Euron Greyjoy character or at least his clothes is that of  a wannabe Brooklyn Hipster. All he needs to do now is buy Cersie some overpriced handcrafted organic Sumatra coffee.  I initially assumed it was Tyrian. Euron may still make a marriage proposal to Danny too - why only offer Cersi when you can offer your two good hands to both and then choose whomever you believe is stronger? That could, in theory, put Euron close to Tyrian. 

Of course, kidnapping Tyrian probably wouldn't endear him too much to Danny if she knows Euron did it. Nope it is Ellira. We have already viewed pictures of her in chains walking behind Euron. She killed Myrcella so I can see Cersie viewing her capture as a worthy gift.I have to agree. The dialogue delivery was poor at best, and the exchanges seemed like a high school play instead of what we have been used to even last season. 

Agree, I'm hoping its just a lack of good takes and next week we are back in it again. CoFT used weapons made of dragon glass. Was he warging into a giant? I just took it as him taking a gander through Weirwood.net. Yeah, with Tom Cruise as Jon Snow 🙄It was just a similar looking dagger.No relation with Littlefinger's dagger.thanks captain obviousShe is 100% going to kill at least 1 of them and take his face/armor.I'm wondering if those cells weren't more a form of quarantine for really infectious diseases. I would make sense then why Jorah, someone with greyscale, would be there.That was Jorah Mormont. Last season Dany sent him away ordering him to find a cure for himself. There is no better place to do that than the citadel.GRRM has not set any ground rules for FM magic yet because the books have only a few face wearing scenes.Whereas the show writers are relying heavily on this because it is a major skill of Arya.They don't want to define rules this late in the story.So they are just running along with made up flexible logic of face stealing.  
Edit:[This](http://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2017/07/game-of-thrones-season-7-premiere-recap-arya-faceless-men-red-wedding) might do a better job of explaining.Ask yourself this:  how would you get a large group of people to simultaneously consume poison in a fashion that would prevent anyone to prematurely kick it and warn the others?  About the only way would be to fill glasses immediately before a toast before a ranking individual while ensuring that their old glasses are dry.  Hence, [paraphrasing] pour out that other swill and drink this poison in your honor.  For all the people complaining about Arya's "superpower", you have to admit that the way this was pulled off was rather brilliant:  there is no other way to efficiently exact fatal revenge on that many people.

Thus, the long-drawn speech was necessary and makes perfect sense.  Note that she only went into condemnation once her "guests" were starting to die.  Everything before that was a necessary setup.>  a big stack of made up things that works against other made up things doesn't really excite me at all

What is the "big stack of made up things" here?Even the inheritance quartet couldn't avoid a deus ex machina, it follows with a villain being an army of agile sturdy dementors.Why are you so sure about that Arm tattoo thing?I would've preferred if she just broke character and told the girl that "The North Remembers" and walked out of there as Walder Frey.I get the impression that Arya is still not that well practiced at face changing, so her changes are rougher.It also reminds me too much of the mission impossible masks. It takes me right out of the show.

At least with jaqen, he turned away and we didn't actually see it.yeah I preferred Jaqen's magic hand waveWhat hint has there been that he's gonna survive lolYou're just now coming to that realization? Wow lolThey have absolutely no idea who she is. One of them also mentioned "fighting someone else's war". These aren't exactly the elite of the Lannister army. It's highly possible they're decent men and would much rather be at home living their quiet boring lives.they have no idea who she is. And the lannister soldiers are suppose to be keeping the peace in the riverlands. The rank and file lannister soldier is a far cry from The Mountains band of psychopaths.>Sansa's decision to blab to Cersei

Did it happen in the show? Someone in the comments claimed it is book only event. She was a child and Ned made many mistakes that would have led to his downfall.Reminds me of Paul Bettany in A Knight's TaleCliffhanger for this season, or penultimate episode?Yea there's no goddamn way it's staying up.Who is Tom turgooseAww. The Old Bear. Still hurts. :( I won't be happy if they don't talk about him, now.The only eye witness besides edd, actually.Jorah already learned the details of the Lord Commander's death from Tyrion 

Here's the text from season 5 episode 6.(unbent unbowed unbroken)

"I only know what I heard, “He was leading an expedition beyond the wall. There was a mutiny. He was murdered by his own men."
If Jorah survives the series I can see him maybe taking over the Nights Watch or something to that effect. If there even is a Nights Watch afterThat's why I was really disappointed with Dragon Stone being empty. Would have been good to see how Dany would treat her family's banner men who became Barrathean loyalist.I thought that was really nice too, I was worried the other lords would give them grief for merely being born into the wrong families. I liked that they made her look like SansaYeah especially how everyone was talking like they weren't even there I believe you. 

But he only has one hand. Also apparently when they're standing on that big map Jaime is standing on the fingers and Cersei is standing on the neck Wait wtf Jamie doesn't have two hands.  Idk how I've never thought of that. I really feel that her walking past the throne confirmed my longstanding fear that she will never shit the Iron Throne only die fighting the walkers.> If she would've sat on the throne, it would have been too cliche. So really glad she doesn't do that, instead she goes straight to the planning room. No comfy couches for this Queen

This was the best part of that whole sequence imo. Straight to work. Subtle bad-assery.My head canon is if anybody was there they ran off when they saw the huge armada & three dragons approaching.Kings Landing is pretty good at defending itself from sea invasions to be fair, Stannis had more than a bit of trouble in Blackwater Bay. Big oversight from Cersei though, I agree. The idiotic thing is that they wouldn't even need a huge force to hold that castle for months seeing how the only way to get from the beach to the castle is by first going through a huge gate and then crossing a bridge that at most can have two soldiers going up it side by side.Pretty much. Given that it is a highly defensible stronghold with a good port and has a history of being used as a place to launch an invasion of Westeros from, you'd think that the Lannisters or someone else would at least have some sort of token force there to prevent it from being immediately occupied by some enemy or by pirates. It'd make more sense for that scene to feature some sort of small garrison that chooses to wisely surrender to the vast, dragon-equipped fleet that is approaching them, but I guess that would ruin the imagery of them landing on a deserted island.

Honestly it feels like Dany's conquest is going to be very easy, which is a bit of a let-down.Cersei *dove* for that wine as soon as Tommen was brought up. :(I'm with you on arya. She was a favorite all the way through season four. Season five was okay, but dull. Season six was kind of bad, and seven's not off to a great start.Concur with the handsomeness of that other soldier. Mmmm... Isn't fellow guardsman the second cameo of Jon Snow impersonator, after DrSteveLove last year? Looks like it to me.I thought Nymeria was in the river lands (where Arya happens to be traveling atm)Also in the books, Arbor Gold is mentioned whenever someone is about to be poisoned.It bugged me that they were pouring red wine though.Where's your crown King Nothing?The iron throne has no ships and Stannis' garrison probably fled. Oh and salladhor Saan probably stole anything of value That was some Spicy Salsa!That really showed how much Sansa had grownfist of the first men i think.a very peaked mountain my first thought was the massive ice army marching in an arrowhead formation, but the mountain of dragonglass at dragonstone is probably itI think it is from the show. Sam Just discovered a mountain made from dragonglass under Dragonstone.Not sure there's any clues in the books for that. My first thought when I heard mountain was Gregor Clegane, but I don't think that's likely. My second thought was the mountain of dragonglass in Dragonstone that could be fitted as arrowheads to fight the dead.No idea. IIRC the mountains are west of castle black, not east of it.People already gotta keep all characters in head, they ain't ready for learning about new good Frey's. Seeing as we never had perwyn olyvar or even stevron. The Queen of Thorns was late to the sass party and is not well pleased!It was either her burning her enemies or getting imprisoned (or executed). Completely different from Aerys who just decides to kill random people on a much larger scale out of spite.It's at least a little different, I was under the impression aerys had the wildfire spread out to destroy the entirety of king's landing while cersei did a targeted blast at the church, which was growing to be a huge problem anyway, albeit one she created herself.The mad king was planning on burning the entire city though right? Cersei just targeted her enemies albeit with some collateral damageJaimie wasn't madly in love or had a sexual relationship with the Mad King. I think it's only fair that he seems conflicted and not out-right hostile.Dude, Jaime gave Cersei a "WTF" look a lot in this episode, they are slowly building itSince show has stressed the prophesy by that young Cersie scene, it is very likely to come true (on the show), but you argument is good too, wouldn't this lead to the conclusion that Tyrion is the valanquor ?>  honestly surprised to see that Jaimie is only mildly irritated with Cersei.

I'm pretty sure it is because he knows Cersei is dangerous and won't hesitate to kill Jamie himself so Jamie is just playing it cool so he doesn't upset her too much. He tried to bring up Tommen but Cersei shut it down immediately. Yeah it's almost like he loves her or something which is strange since that hasn't been established at allI think he's being rightfully cautious, playing it close to the chest. Cersei has shown a surprising (to him) indifference to what she used to hold most dear and shown that she's extremely dangerous. So Jaime knows he's in a precarious position.

He's also probably still struggling with his feelings about her and the recent death of his child.I think he's just conflicted right now.   This is still the woman he loved, so it'd take a lot to go from that to wanting to kill her.  I still think that's what it's building to though, she probably has one more atrocity in her before Jaime breaks.I thought his facial expressions said a lot - he's pretty deeply disturbed by what she did but he's trying to bring her back from that precipice of evil. He probably knows that, with their children all dead, he's the only one that can.I don't think he's sure she did it.I would agree, except that I think the entire point of that scene was that Cersei is willing to address and process NOTHING. Not what happened to Tommen, the Sept, how the fuck any of these "enemies" arrived at their decision to be "traitors". To process would be to realize failure and mistakes and regret, none of which are things Cersei has EVER had interest in, as they undermine power. For much of their lives together, Jamie has only ever reaped benefit from this aspect if Cersei. Now, not so much. 

I think Jamie just knows how fucked his house is by now, and confirmed that his sister will not back down, not even in private to him. I don't know if he realizes that it'll come down to Cersei vs the lives of thousands. Yet. 

I'm willing to bet that's the last time we see him without armor on around Cersei. Cersei doesn't trust Jamie any more. [deleted]I think he's hiding how pissed he is because he's legitimately scared of her now.I think they're building to Jaime Queenslayer.This is also bugging me. Is there any possible way he doesn't know she did it? There isn't, right? Jaime sacrificed his reputation FOREVER to kill the Mad King because he wanted to do what Cersei just did. He either doesn't know she did it or is not reacting properly. Yeah for me that was quite jarring. His whole character is built from forsaking his vows and killing the king he was sworn to protect for the greater good. Cersei was like ‘you mad at me’? for doing exactly that and Jaime didn’t give a fuck. 

Edit - apparently vowels and vows are different words. The scenes if she takes the easy way and kills the mountain to kill Cersei. That'd be a GRRM twist to deprive us from CleganebowlHow will she not have the Faceless Men after her for how she is using the skills learned at the house of black and white? The pub isn't the best place to kill a queen, so King's Landing is where I go... *mmmm*> Euron built a thousand ships in less than a season. Fucking splendid.

Meanwhile Cersei's hair didn't grow more than an inch. But I guess we aren't 100% sure of how long ago the Kingsmoot actually was.What, the random serving wench insists that a magical shapeshifting girl killed everyone and that the north remembered doesn't get believed? What a surprise.

Of course nobody believes her. They know all the Freys died, and some girl survived and blabbered a bunch of nonsense, but the girl is ignored because of course she is.> Why is Dragonstone empty? It's not like the entire population fucked off with Stannis? Did they just abandon the place when he died? Wouldn't they just bend the knee to the Iron Throne now?
> 

This is kind of a dumb complaint. If you were a Stannis loyalist and heard that the crazy bitch with the dragons was headed your way, wouldn't you sail off in whatever fishing boat/dinghy/wooden plank you could find and hide somewhere?

You have some valid points on other ones though.Yeah, I don't get how Euron can build ships AND sail to Kings landing in the time it took Dany to just sail to Dragonstone. >cult of the badass  



I see, you watch MrBTongue. Either way, given the limited time, I guess it's acceptable now to give quick finishes to some storylines.We got a heavy loyalist band scene when Jon was proclaimed king.The whole Dragpnstone thing doesn't bother me because if I were a group of Baratheon banermen without a king stuck between  Queen Cersei "Blows shit up with wildfire" Lannister and Queen Daenerys "Has three goddamn Dragons" Targaryen I'd probably abandon my post too.  > Why is Dragonstone empty? It's not like the entire population fucked off with Stannis? Did they just abandon the place when he died? Wouldn't they just bend the knee to the Iron Throne now?

I imagine he did leave a castellan behind, but once Stannis an his army was wiped out, along with the entire royal line of Baratheons, the staff probably abandoned the castle because... well, there wasn't much point staying there waiting for the Lannisters to come knocking. I expect that's what would have happened as well if not for Cersei's wildfire meltdown and the discovery of Dany's imminent invasion. The Lannisters did go from ruling Westeros to being surrounded by enemies, which probably made the occupation of Dragonstone seem rather less urgent.I liked the episode too, but since you're listing things that nagged you, I'd like to add Lyanna Mormont. At this point it feels like the show is milking her. You'd think that other characters would get annoyed by her speeches by now.



 "Oh shit, here goes the eleven year old girl again. Great, a child is telling me why my ten year old sickly girl should be drafted into the army. Aaaand I'm told off infront of everyone. Cool. Great. Great hearing. Great council. Fucking^joke^of^a^fuckity^fuck^fuck " 
- Galbart Glover, probably> Why is Dragonstone empty? 

Limited minutes, 7 episodes, dramatic effect. The Stannis-dragonglass thing seemed terribly contrived to me too.> I was almost getting annoyed at the dialogue between Sansa and Jon, but I can't quite put my finger on why.

For me, it was a "Sansa still doesn't know when to keep quiet, and when to talk" moment.

I get it, she has some good points. But for christ sake, there's a time and place.> 4 A.M.

Turkey?Except the miniature of maegors holdfast in a scene
 Also in the guarding department. They just kinda opened the door, pulled down a banner that was apparently held up by one tiny thread, and boom. Conquered.Seriously :( It looks nothing at all like the magnificent, creepy, twisted, ornate Valyrian architecture in my head.I was the opposite. I still enjoyed it, but the moment I saw Walder Frey I said, Oh this is where Arya murders all the Freys. but two does putting a face on make Arya big enough to pass as Walder Frey?A theory I've been holding a couple of seasons is Arya failing / dying in her quest to kill the queen, at the hands of the mountain. The Hound could then avenge Arya by killing the Mountain, leaving the Queen for Jaime.Still wasn't a fan of Euron myself. His costume was a bit average and dialogue not brilliant IMO. I wonder how that will play out. Will Arya lose her life trying to off Cersei, failing in her quest for revenge, only for Jaime to ultimately finish the job? Or will something non-lethal delay her or sidetrack her instead? 

I honestly don't know what will happen to Arya. She's one of the main POVs, and a fan favourite character, but judging from the path she's chosen it seems unlikely she will survive until the end... Maybe his niece.I was thinking Tyrion's head. Given all the talk about traitors in their families.
reek's penisProbably the sandsnakesI'm waiting for Brienne to file a formal complaint with the Winterfell HR department. "Hostile work environment" "Inappropriate comments" "Sexual harassment"I love it because it shows him being persistent, loving strong women, stubborn, and utterly clueless about southern women.Brienne fought a bear. Tormund wants to fuck a bear. Brienne is a bear? That look he gives is great!I loved when Podrick got a blow in and she started shoving him around. It made him look like a little brother who embarrassed her in front of her crush.Moments like that is when Tormund gets closest to his book equivalent.I think you dismissing this episode as "table-setting" really kind of shows you only focus on the battles and character deaths and don't really care about the many enjoyable moments that make this show so special.

I do agree about the budget.  A lot of people think budget only = zombies and explosions but there were so many more wide shots showing off the settings, particularly showing a lot of Dragonstone inside and out rather than just a single room and an establishing shot.About the budget, if you watch S1 almost all scenes are close quarters and full of dialogue. During S2 or S3, the big cinematic shot was Jon and Ygritte kissing on top of the wall. This episode only we probably got 4 or 5 cinematic shots.could you elaborate - which scenes in particular showcased drastically increased budget?How was the new budget obvious in this episode? 

I saw them saving it, there should have been some sort of fight for dragonstone. I left the episode thinking that things haven't changed. Same old same oldHonestly, Sansa to me seems to be delving deeper and deeper into wanting to play the Southern game and her own selfish vengeance instead of the Northern one Jon is involved in. She's openly disrespectful to both Jon and Little Finger which is arrogance (Cersei style arrogance) and just stupidity. Yet she feels the need to let Jon know every time she's smart and others were dumb and she's LEARNED how things should happen unlike him.

But she hasn't learned. She's constantly making bad judgements. Hell right after a council meeting where the North agreed to put aside it's "honor" so to speak and train women because the threat from the wights is so strong... she claims Jon doesn't know Cersei like her and she's who we have to be worried about... seriously everyone in the North got it because they listened and she seems still wholly self involved. Jon simply points out that the South is destroyed in war, the Lannisters can barely hold Kings Landing, and it's winter. Being worried about them with the threat of the wights is an absurdity. If it were the Freys that'd be one thing if the news of their demise wasn't yet know. Just stupid Sansa being stupid Sansa. 

I foresee her arrogance in the future betraying Jon for a seizure of power, using Littlefinger to help execute it. Unless she really is just this dumb and thinks openly mocking the baddest schemer in LittleFinger is smart while doubling down and chastising the King in the North in public and private as she with holds critical information like an army coming to save them and the obvious situation where LittleFinger needs to kill Jon to have her seize power to help his "vision" come to light. > I like how Bran totally didn't answer Edd's question and everyone just moved on

Yeah noticed that too. I guess Bran just has Speech 100?TBH, if you're okay with Dany's OP bullshit, Ayra shouldn't bother you that much. 

Just an observation, not an attack. Kinda agree with you :) I agree with Arya and Euron.  Arya's abilities are well enough established with FM magic/training.  I think you are meant to assume she found a way, which isn't totally unbelievable. 

What I really don't like is that Euron is a poorly established character.  Who has 1,000 ships that he built and manned out of nowhere with wood that certainly didn't come from the Iron Islands.  This guy is being set up to be the main obstacle for Danny.  They should have had him build 100 ships, and use 100-200 ships that he either salvaged or that weren't stolen.  They could have established that the Iron Born are great sailors and Euron is a great leader, thereby evening the odds.  As opposed to poof here's 1000 ships. Agree with most of what you said, but this;

> A Day in the Life of Samwell Tarly was great.


Felt like straight filler. I like that despite the fact he's literally shoveling shit, and that no one takes him seriously, Sam is still getting the job done. This *eh the wall will protect us* attitude that even the most evolved of the maesters have is not good. I also have a bad feeling Bran is going to be responsible somehow for the fall of the wall. I mean, Arya's Faceless Men abilities were kind of the whole point of her training to be one of the Faceless Men. Out of all your initial thoughts, that is by far the worst one in my opinion. I can't really give a rebuttal as I'm pretty drunk right now, but I stand by my statement nonetheless. I was so confused for about 10 seconds until I realizdd it was Arya. Then I just went, holy shit this is amazing, and then it was.The actor did a good job at appearing as "not quite Lord Frey" too. Is your laptop fine?it was too obvious that someone was gonna grab Sam's hand tho.

Being Jorah was a suprise (I noticed on the voice immediatly) but still the show still needs to learn subtetlyHow did Jorah end up there?So Jorah obtained teleportation powers? Is this confirmed?Poor guy is just living for news of his queen.The thing I don't get is clearly someone knows how to either slow the spread or stop it because of shireen Wasn't it a dickmove of Jorah to try to touch Sam? Watched the episode 3 times now and Jorah and his stupid fucking greyscale hand startles me very single time. Also it didn't dawn on me until the ep started again and they showed the Previously On but it was the hound who stole the silver from that father and her daughter in season 4. I wonder if eric saw that in his flames and that's why they took sandor there   I don't lurk enough, what is confirmed?The hype and chicken is realUntil then, yeah, they're just reusing every stupid line or scene that had a decent reception last season. There was literally no point to having that exchange, and no explanation for it other than the writers not being able to come up with something new."I brought you my mixtape"I think it's the production spoilers that brought the downvotes.Guy,  I am not trying to be smart or sarcastic. There are pictures out there. She is in chains and dragged by Euron. Looks like it to me. http://imgur.com/a/goXeQThey zoom up to the giants eye that was milky and then cut to Bran.  I'm assuming sohttps://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nq5fh/comment/dkbfikn?st=J587TLFB&sh=e7b83f77

See here I'm pretty sure it wasn't. It's a very distinctive blade and the camera shot rests on it for more than a second, centre shot. Show runners wouldn't waste time on that. I'm trying to get a screen shot but I'm 100% certain it was the dagger

Edit: also, questionably LF's daggerI vote for the hot oneYea, i couldnt figure that out in that scene. In my mind he was still in essos. I wonder whats gonna happen to him. Maesters obviously couldnt cure him.Dragonglass me thinks. In the show Ned told Cersei himself. He wanted to give her a chance to get her children out of King's Landing so they wouldn't be killed, iirc. 

Sansa's only involvement was begging Joffrey/Cersei for a pardon/sending Ned to the wall if he confessed to treason. Don't defend Sansa, she's dumb as fuckI'd say you're right, it'll be this season's cliffhanger. I'm wondering if they'll still stick to the 'penultimate-episode-huge-battle trope' of previous seasons, even with 3 fewer episodes...I can imagine a big death in the last or penultimate episode, then the Wall coming down would set up the final season nicely for Ice vs FireHe's the Lannister soldier who made the blackberry wine & talks about his father being alone at sea. Best known for his decades-long involvement in a fantastic film/TV series called "This Is England".But not his last words and dying wish for Jorah to take the black and that he forgives him... Hm, actually I can't remember if that happens in the show or just the book?  There won't even be a wall afterAre you implying Dolorous Edd is going to die. Not fucking likely.I was mad that sansa wanted to take their homes away from them.... hello, your father was killed as a traitor and they didn't take away winterfell from you.  She should have known how it felt to be in their shoes I think this is a key point. I hope im wrong but it feels like they have almost turned her into the very thing she hates. I thought that was hilarious. They're all talking about killing their families and destroying their castles, and they're just sitting there like "Shit, I really hope they don't decide to kill me"If Arya wears Jaimie's face he will have two hands....There's another younger brother who has a history of strangling people... but I'm sure you could still choke the life out of someone with one good hand and one metal one. It would hurt to shit the iron throne.Dragons, brah. Dragons?>  Dany's conquest is going to be very easy

Air support will do that.  Especially flame breathing, predatory air support, that can fry a man in his armor.  I mean the Tyrells take it in ADWD but they straight up just called the banners for Dany here so no point.that good ole plot armor The Hound is actually in the Riverlands. That little farm house the Brotherhood stayed at was owned by a farmer from season 4, the farmer indicated he was a supporter of House Tully. The Iron Islands, lacking any timber, can build 1000 ships because Mr. "I have a big dick" Euron commanded it, but it's been several seasons since Stannis' failed attack on Kings Landing and they still never got around to building any ships.There was a mention that Stannis left the castle deserted, I think by Cersei. 
I thought it was pretty dumb of her to ignore him though considering he has control of the largest army in the north, and the longer you ignore a guy like Littlefinger, the more dangerous he becomes. Especially when the only reason you got Winterfell back was because he's in love with you. If you stop giving him attention, you're just going to piss him off. She needs to at least act like she's listening to him while she figures out a way to get rid of him.They may be building it but this would have been a perfect oppurtunity fot Jaimie to freak out a bit right. I mean she just killed hundreds of innocents and Jaimie hasn't even mentioned it.Yeah but the Valanquor part wasn't mentioned one the show so they could actually steer clear.Maybe but there was no indication of that sort to the audience. He did bring up Tommen but did not even mention the Sept.I am guessing you are being a sarcastic. But if they are still going to push the notion that Jaimie is still in love with her or atleast not less in love with her after the Sept  blast, then that is such a different Jaimie from the bookHopefully thats the way the show goes. I just have a real bad feeling they are not going to show any major problems between Cersei and Jaimie till a shock twist with Jaimie killing her. That would be super cheap in my opinion. But hey , lets hope for the best.Lets hope soLol, that would be hilariousAnd Kevan and lancel...Agreed, but also..I had this conversation with my friend yesterday - where else is Jaime going to turn to? Who else does he have? No one. Nothing.  He is completely alone without Cersei. She's a stark raving cunt right now and Jaime knows it, but he sticks with her because she is his least shit option out of a plethora of shit options. But I don't think he is even remotely okay with what she did and how she's acting right now. He's trying to turn her around - desperate to connect with her and reel her back from the brink of madness, but she's already gone. Its totally understandable considering how much he loves her.I think so too but they are doing a really bad jobNo doubt, imo.  He literally killed the mad king because he was going to burn the city and thousands of innocent people.  

...and what did Cercei do?  

I have little doubt he will be the one to kill her.  Maggie the frog says: "And when your tears have drowned you, the valonqar shall wrap his hands about your pale white throat and choke the life from you."

With valonqar meaning "little brother" I think it's without question that it will be Jamie who kills her.  

I can't wait.Agreed. He definitely seems tired of her shit and the meeting with Euron was a good moment for him to see how delusional Cersei is. The Mad King was going to burn *all* of Kings Landing, not just the Sept.denial is one of of the stages of griefReally weird. It almost seems like he was more pissed about Euron hitting on Cersei rather than her burning the Sept to the groundIt's coz she did the one thing that could save her from certain death. forsaking his vowels and becoming the kngsl(sometimes y)rI get you and I would have liked to see him lash out at her or be more angry with her for what had happened.  I mean if you think about it what is he going to do?  If he spats out at Cersei do you think it will end well for him? You think she still has the same affection for him as she did before? What else is Jaime going to? Leave, go back to Casterly Rock and still have to fight the same war he would have had to if he was at Kings Landing?  At this point I don't think he has a choice and on top of it he is minus one hand and she has a monster by her side.Yeah, The Jaimie in the show is now almost an entirely different character from book Jaimie. Also Jaimie would really suck at scrabble since he forsake his vowels :DSexy Jesus approved when she said she was going home.Heading south for winter, Flea Bottom for dinner, like the Iron Born I do not sowThis is gonna be a thing for the rest of time now isn't it?An assassin poisoned everybody and told me the north remembers. The shapeshifting part could be easily ignored.Well, I presume the Stannis hardcore loyalists went with him. The rest are just smallfolk who can bend the knee. It'd be one thing if Stannis were still kicking but he dead, nothing to be loyal, tooThere's really a simple explanation for this.. The show writing is mediocre at best after having passed the books.Maybe they stole and pillaged a good bit of the ships then pimped em out Ironborn style? Or jacked a lot the supplies instead of gaining them "honestly"? I realize it's a stretch, just trying to string some pieces together... The man finally articulated and provided a phrase to convey a complaint I had. Bless him.  Also, it's entirely acceptable, but they could have just had her leave. The only reason to really keep the poison party scene in is to spice up the episode, like I've head people complain it was a slow/boring episode aside from that scene on the showwatcher only side of things.Could they not have had said castellion meet them at the gates and say "Our King is dead, you have dragons, we surrender the castle to you".Not robett?She's definitely being milked for all her popularity. That scene stands out to me more because of the Mormont ladies in the book, which makes it seem like the North wouldn't be to opposed to female warriors.

That's a strawman argument. It takes ten seconds to have the garrison take one look at Dany's dragons and throw down their swords. That, combined with the stunning misuse of music in the moment made the return feel rather lackluster. I mean, yeah, one assumes, but still. It kind of makes the Lannisters seem kind of stupid for not grabbing it earlier and garrisoning a few hundred troops there.More westward. It started at 3 AM, went to bed at 4.I would have loved to see Dany tug on the banner a few times, and end up having to cling onto it until it gave out under her weight.Such a waste of a castle throughout the series...This was surprising. It's suspicious that the castle didn't have at least a few defenders.  But it looked bigger than in season 2 though? Yes it doesnt look like as described in the books, but I thought it looked great nonethelessRight there with you. So much possibility and they seemingly didn't even try :(The CGI budget isn't THAT bigThe magic adjusts heights, though it would be weird to see it on screen so it's just passed off when the actors change. The whole 'pulling the face off' effect is enough.I think she'll remember her fathers advice: "The lone wolf dies, but the pack survives" while travelling south, and turn North to help her family.  
Nymeria and the wolf pack might help her remember, but I can't see Arya killing Cercei this season (or at least not until near the end of the season).I'm guessing she'll hear somehow that Jon and Sansa are alive and ruling The North and she'll have an inner conflict between reuniting with her family or continuing down her List. The brood of bitches aren't really priceless though Ellaria, is my guess. Well, she will have to queue up behind Sansa and her binders of complaints against Petyr. Maybe Tormund wants to be the maiden fair?I'm waiting for her to just sock him in the face in an effort to end his crush, but as she walks away Tormund just lies there in the snow with a delirious smile on his face going, "What a woman!"Book tomurnd just goes around yelling "Har! Me member is bigger than everyone else's! Har Har!If you're watching this show for well crafted character arcs and consistently good dialogue, I have no idea why you've stuck around for so long.The castle fly overs come to mindI thought the rolling fog ahead of the WWs in Brans vision was a Hollywood-level shot. Dragonstone also looked great (less like a painting than previous cityscapes), and the outdoor scenes with the Hound looked very fucking cold indeedA big one I noticed, costumes. It was also just more theatrical in general. And, ed sheeran lolI thought he was making a point. It doesn't matter if he's really brandon stark if the army of the dead is marching. It might have actually convinced Edd too because that's the same way Jon thinks.Yeah, I agree it was filler but I liked it nonetheless. I think it was a good way to show that he has been at the Citadel for a decent amount of time without actually taking up too much screen time. I loved it. To be fair, I was pretty blazed when I watched it, but the fact that it *just kept going* made me laugh very hard. It was filler, yeah, but the way it was done gave exactly the right effect. Something was filled, for sureI think that line of thinking happens to a lot of people who are deeply involved in history. You can get detached from the now. There is always a crisis, and people always get past it... but how did they do so? 

By being scared and using that fear to spur action. Its easy to forget that they avoided the crisis by treating it like one. It makes sense to me that the scholars would be the last to be truly worried.

I don't doubt her abilities. What I have trouble with his the logistics of baking dead men into pies. That takes some time and effort. I have trouble buying no one would notice. Regardless of how good you are at killing people it doesn't necessarily mean you can inconspicuously do everything that would involve baking people into pies. 

Overall, something like this is just a minor thing that hurts my suspension of disbelief but the payoff is strong so it's not a big dealTip: Stay away from the Arbor Gold, at least for a while.Well sure but we have no idea how the powers work or how she does any of the things she says she does.  She must have spent at least 24 hours in that castle and the majority of it was spent mutilating the corpses of the most important people there without anyone noticing.To be fair, none of her 'training' actually taught her anything about being A Faceless Man. She tried to skip ahead and got in trouble and then had to murder her way out of it. We really have no understanding of how she is able to create faces, take on the voice of her face, grow half a foot while wearing a face, etc. 

She's just a Shapeshifter and we know just about as much about her powers as we did when the Faceless Men were first introduced to us. That Arya smirk mid-speech was actually pretty damn goodThis is very true. You could tell it was not his normal character which is very impressive considering he played him for so long. David Bradley is a master craftsman.After drying it thoroughly it's running fine currently, only the keyboard suffered and half of the keys don't function at all - the other half gives completely wrong input. I removed it, using a USB one for now. Could've ended worseDany told him to find a cure. He probably went to the repository of western knowledge as his best bet. Maybe after exhausting his options in the east. Shireen . . . Sheeran . . . Half-life 3 confirmed.I imagine it's kinda like Cowpox and Smallpox? If you get one disease, the less deadly one, you become immune to the deadlier version?


Just a guessNo one really knows. The few people who have been cured of it undergo so many treatments that it's not clear which one worked. And it's so contagious, people don't want to find outIt's said that preventing the spread of greyscale is easier in children for whatever reason and Stannis dedicated immeasurable time and resources into this endeavor. Being that both and his wife are dead, I doubt any living person still knows of what he did, and that combined with the sort of nebulous idea that children heal from it better/more quickly, I don't think it's that simple. Then again, this D&D logic and the concept that Jorah is still alive/will *ever* find the cure is still out there bopping around so who knows. Hmm but if that thing about dragonglass being a cure for it is right, and Shireen lived on Dragonstone for a while which has a lot of dragonglass. It's very possible she somehow cured herself/accidentally got cured from the dragonglass around her?

(Spitballing here i think i remember something in this episode (?) about dragonglass and greyscale. Think it was in one of Sam's books)I think in the books its mentioned that because she caught it as a child, she caught a less virulent strain or something? I think there was Greyscale (the bad one), and Greypox (the one she got)? It still scarred her for life, it terrifies the Wildlings for some reason, but she is immune to both now - sort of like a really really bad chickenpox / shingles analogy.

EDIT: According to AWOIAF she caught Greyscale, but it can be (rarely) recovered / halted, especially in children. Grey plauge is a thing, but is basically Greyscale on steroids and super virulent and very fast acting. Surviving Greyscale does give immunity to Grey plague though - more reminiscent of Cowpox and Smallpox.She's called Shireen, Shireen. It rhymes with Irene. Is this so hard? He grabbed the bowl, not Sam.Also Same is wearing pretty thick gloves in the scene. He's probably losing his mind and motor control skills.The greyscale has gotten worse, he is becoming more violent. Not his faultFor the longest time in episode 9 of last season I would get scared by the pyramid of Mereen getting it's door blown in..https://youtu.be/psS2IMFkxKoThat would be "Cleganebowl" (Get Hype) the predicted fight between the Hound and The Mountain.If you read The World of Ice and Fire there are pictures of the weapons used by CoFT, which is similar to the picture in the book  Sam was reading. The fact that there is dragon glass at Dragonstone or that CoFT left weapons for Night's Watch is not new.  Also, Valyrian daggers are rare but not THAT rare that it is THE knife, which started it all.http://www.vanityfair.com/hollywood/2017/07/game-of-thrones-recap-season-7-premiere-brans-vision-hound-euron-jorah-ed-sheeran

Third GIF down. Looks blue to me. People are guessing Sam might cure him with dragon glass or something Mayhaps I mean, isn't that basically obsidian though?what are you talking about? in the book the thing sansa blabed about to cersei is that ned is sending her back to winterfell, and he doesn't want her to marry joffery, cersei then takes her hostage, she is used as a tool to get him to false confess.

in the show she is captured after neds arrest i think, lannister soldiers come to the tower of the hand, septa tells her to run while she walks towards them, but i don't remember if she tells cersei if they are leaving or not.I'm pretty sure this line is only in the books.Lost enough men on the Wall so far, he'll probably make it.

Was good to see him again,  it that nervous look he gives to the horizon got my hype meter up.Edd is going to doloursly die when the wall falls on top of him or underneath him. Edd is just the standing LC, so he wouldn't have to die for someone else to take over that role.What is Edd may never die.They did take winterfell away from Robb however.I'm kinda leaning towards the fact that the prophecy states the valonqar has two hands and Jamie doesn't have that, regardless of his ability to strangle someone. IDK how I feel about that though because Jamie strangling Cersei feels like his character development would end on a poetic note, Tyrion strangling her feels like justice porn.Sounds like a great idea. Torch the place you want to take and hold. Dragons.You're right. I'd forgotten about that. 

I assumed the hound was farther north given the difference in weather between the Arya/Brotherhood scenes Well what do you expect when you send your master of ships to bravos to beg for an extension on your loan payments and then blow him up when he finally gets home.Not a smart political move, but give Sansa some credit. She knows Baelish knew how horrible Ramsey would be to her and gave her to him anyway. She will never forgive him for that. As always the show will not deliver as I think, but I think they made ground work to make Jaime freak more and more> Maybe but there was no indication of that sort to the audience. 

It is common sense tbh. Shit like that doesn't need to be spelled out to the audience. Yeah true, he isn't as openly struggling with his emotions as he does in the books so far, but that might still develop as the season progresses. Also I think that book Jaime does still love her, despite her madness, which is why he's trying to get away from her. He doesn't want to be put in a situation where he'll have to choose between Cersei or the realm. But anyway, I think the more Cersei en Euron get along, the more divided he'll get. I think you're spot on. When he confronted her about Tomen -- "Our son committed suicide and we haven't even talked about it" -- I'm paraphrasing, but that struck me in the feels. Cersei is entirely closed off emotionally from reality, and Jaime was trying to jolt her into at least acknowledging what had happened. This is the kind of obscene stonewalling that breaks up real-world marriages, even when it is about a lesser tragedy than a son who kills himself. Jaime is coping with horrible losses *alone*, which has got to undercut his love for his sister/lover.Yeah I think you nailed it. The only person  who would accept him though I think would be Brienne, since she knows his good side. But she would have to convince everyone else around her that he's not a terrible person, which would be hard to do. I guess there's also the possibility of Tyrion accepting him, but Tyrion would also have to managed to convince Dany and crew. 

I'm sure this season there will be a big moment where Jaime has had absolutely enough and would be willing to leave (or kill her maybe?) Arya will be a catalyst for his change; when she gets to King's landing. Which would give him a reason to finally head north to Brienne.Isn't Euron a little brother too?Yeah, Cersei only blew up a portion of the city...but she did it in the same way the Mad King was threatening. The scale isn't important, it's the intent.Well the only thing I can think is that in the books its all of kings landing that will burn, not just the Sept.Of course he could lash out. He’s Jaime fucking Lannister. There’s no men like him, there’s only him. He’s the type of person to slice a mans throat and forsaking his vows for the greater good, knowing full well this will haunt him for the rest of his life. He’s the how of person to throw an innocent child from a window to protect the ones he love. He’s headstrong and doesn’t think about consequences. He wouldn’t just stand there and let Cersei rule... Heck no. The jaimes' are 99.9% thecsame character. You're just trying to look at a puzzle while holding 3 pieces.  When the books and show are over. You'll see they are on the exact same arch At least he hasn't forsaken his bowels, because that'd get messy really quick.That seems tame AF. Is that because they had a previous relationship you think? mmmmYou're telling me that she didn't tell them all the crazy fuckin shapeshifting stuff? The most insane thing she has ever seen by an outrageous magnitude just happened to her, shes gonna be an incoherent mess.

Nobody will believe what she says, other than that the Freys are definitely dead by poison, which is obvious by walking in the room.Smallfolk or bigfolk, these are people who had been living under Stannis' rule. They probably think Dany's yet another murderous Targaryen out for revenge. How are they supposed to know how Dany would treat them? I would get the fuck out of there if I could, or at the very least hide somewhere far away from the army.Yeah, my bad. I had them confused.I think the show killed him off during the wot5k. In the books atleast he wasn't at the red wedding and is one of the people sent out with king Robb s will While yes they are milking her, and I don't mind it, she is still the first one to declare for Da King in Da Norf. I'm pretty sure she gets to speak whenever she damnwell pleases. According to the World of Ice and Fire book (does this count as canon?) There are several minor castles in that area: Dragonstone, Driftmark, Sharp Point, and more north up on the coastline Rooks Rest. I don't know if they all have been abandoned, but maybe it's possible the Lannisters have some men stationed at some of these?

 Or maybe the defense Tyrion thought up prior to Stannis' attack on Blackwater Bay is enough in their minds? Cersei is a bit cocky in my opinion, maybe she figures since it worked well then she doesn't have to worry about an attack from the water? Dragonstone is in and off itself pretty worthless though. It has value to:

- a Targaryen like Dany;
- pre-rebellion, as the seat of the Prince(ss) of Dragonstone, as a right of their heir to the Iron Throne;
- someone with dragons as it's the known place on Westeros for dragons to thrive; or
- someone who knows about Dragonglass.

Aside from the architecturally interesting castle it doesn't have much to someone the above don't apply to. It would just be a useless rock to garrison when troops are already thin on the ground.

I do wonder where the island's small folk are, and why HOUSE VELARYON is ... but I can see why Cersei doesn't care. Nobody wants to die for a token defense -- they ran off.I'm just assuming whatever tiny garrison Stannis left in Dragonstone decided to beat a trail the moment they spotted a giant armada on the horizon.I thought that Jaime's rundown of how you need to feed an army if you're going to have an army was the de facto explanation for why they didn't have any defenders. The Tyrell's took all the grain and thus the ability for the Lannister's/The Crown to protect any places that aren't King's Landing/Casterly Rock.

Also, even if there was a small regiment of soldiers there, as soon as I saw one dragon I'm getting the hell away from there, let alone three dragons and an armada.

I would gtfo too if I saw an army and 3 dragons coming.Yeah I kept expecting Euron's forces to ambush them, since earlier in Cersei/Jamie's discussion they anticipated Danerys would land exactly there, so it's not like it was a surprise move on her part.Stannis has been dead for quite some time, and it was implied that he didn't even leave behind a single soldier because he was stretched too thin.

If in the show he did leave behind a small garrison force, once they heard he was dead, why wouldn't they all bugger off? What does Joe Schmo Soldier have to gain from occupying a castle that technically belongs to the crown that you just rebelled against? Might as well leave and find new work.I was more surprised by the lack of supporting crew. No groundskeepers left behind to maintain the joint. What good are they on the war path?It did look great and I'm sure if I didn't read the book I would in fact like it.But it isRevenge for Myrcella is though.HARI think over the past two seasons, Tormund is actually becoming a more real/fleshed out character than he is in the books. When he first debuted, I hated what they did to his character but the writing for his character has gotten a lot better.And rightfully so!Well I'm glad I could help.The fly-over shot of Winterfell was beautiful. The godswood is huge!Those scenes really messed with my perception of size.  Sure the dragons are big but they aren't nearly so big that they would look so large next to the castle.I don't think it's what you're saying, but I would be shocked and annoyed if they paid more than any extra to have Ed Sheeran be in the show.In the books wearing the face gives you the facial appearance and some of the experience of the person; but I think the growing a foot, the voice changing, etc. is probably just a glamour.  With the Mance/Rattleshirt glamour that Mel does she said something to the effect of "people see/hear what they expect to" and a little bit of magic goes a long way.  

My interpretation is that it's a basic glamour spell that's used. I will say that yes the voice part is interesting, but as for the face itself, nobody saw her kill Walder who was, for some reason, just sitting alone in the hall eating, and during her training she was exposed to the method of removing and preserving the faces. I can't remember what episode or if it was in the books but she definitely had some understanding of that. For the height thing too, Walder is sitting down like 90% of the time anyway it would not have been hard for her to conceal a block or something to stand on to look taller.I think her plan of going to KL is going to be her downfall. I'm calling it now, Arya is going to be the "shocking" death of this season. I keep thinking of the quote they have Sansa saying in the promos, "The lone wolf dies, but the pack survives." Can't help but think that is about Arya. Freys are ripe for the picking, they think they've made it and aren't paranoid about holding on. Cersei and the KL folks are another level. You mean Argus FilchThe coffee sends its regards.I bet Davos knows!I thought Stannis brought in some maesters to work on curing his daughter. They couldn't have written it down and sent their findings to the Citadel? [deleted]She's not immune to fire lolIIRC she had it from birth, meaning she has developed immunity, I think only those who have Greyscale from birth can survive it.It doesn't really rhyme with Irene though does it. It's not shy-reen. It's sh-reenI know how the name is pronounced just not spelled > That would be "Cleganebowl" (Get Hype) the ~~predicted~~ fucking confirmed fight between the Hound and The Mountain.
Fair enough, but they then do a zoom cut to bran with eyes rolled back, which to me implied warging Not to mention that its a fantasy world. Making up things is sort of the deal here.YesMight want to re-read my comment. But rises again, harder and more prooned.It is quite odd, actually. We know that Arya is somewhere south of the Twins, since she's on her way to King's Landing. We can assume she's taking the King's Road, which basically travels along the Green Fork. I'd assume we would have seen her stop at the Inn at the Crossroads because a Hot Pie/Arya reunion would be too good to pass up, so the logical assumption is that she is still north of the crossroads.

Meanhwhile, we know that the [Farmer](http://gameofthrones.wikia.com/wiki/Farmer) lives just outside Fairmarket, which is [along the blue fork](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Fairmarket) and is actually further south than we can assume Arya to be unless she's *just* shy of the crossroads.Well, winter has arrived.  It,s snowing or getting cold everywhere north of KL it seems.I'm pretty sure he had no idea how horrible Ramsey would be to her. I don't think he was lying when he said he "underestimated a stranger".Lets hope so. A friend of mine suggested that Jaimie might stay loyal to Cersei till the end, that would just be such a waste.It doesn't need to be spelled out but the level of indignation he showed was obviously not to the level that I was expecting. That was my point.  Jaimie did not even mention the Sept blasting or the innocents that were killed. He only mentioned Tommen. the rest of the conversation was about the future. 

All I'm saying is a bit more emotion from his part would have been more believable.if he heads north, Jaime could also finally try to make amends with BranNot cercei's little brother.I think the scale is important to Jaime. I think it was part of why he did kill the Mad King, the Mad King was ranting about the whole of Kings Landing going up in flames. 

Either way, he still loves her and would justify it, trying to save Tommen from the High Septon, etc. and by "it wasn't the whole city, not that many people died." His love for her is his tragic flaw. His story is a tragedy, not the hero's journey. 

Thats probably true but I would have thought Jaimie would still be pretty pissed off from the blasting os the Sept alone.This seems obviously the right answer. Cersei didn't do what Aerys wanted to do, she used the wildfire to take out all the sparrows and the Tyrells, their biggest immediate enemies. It's not like she just went mad and killed everyone in King's Landing like Aerys tried to.>He wouldn’t just stand there and let Cersei rule

Unfortunately, he is no longer that Jaime Lannister and hasn't been for some time.  On top of it she is not just his twin sister she is now sitting on the throne and just blew up all their allies and has a 7 foot behemoth protecting her.  Words and anger aren't going to do a lick for someone who is out to kill everyone and has completely lost her mind.  You would think after what she went through she would be humbled like what had happened to Jaime.  No, instead she is out of her fucking mind.  To add to that he is in absolutely no position what so ever to do anything.The beginning and end point might be same but even at the moment the two Jaimies are quite different. Just because they end up in the same place does not mean the arcs are similarI'm still hopefully but we're been saying that for a while now. Still annoyed we missed his great line to Loras after he gets back with Brienne :/ Yeah, that would have been a job for SamI hope he has a lot of towels because that would  start to smell foul.No, you're thinking of TywinIt did auto correct to that initially. It’s really intimidating writing on the ASOIAF Reddit because I listen to the audio books so I have no clue on how to spell names...They'd certainly ignore the facelift magic part, but the 'killer left a message that the north remembers' seems pretty reasonable to trust. Stark loyalists have more reason to kill Freys than anyone.Well aren't the people on Dragonstone the Targaryen loyalists? Stannis main job was to bring them to heel, so a Targ coming to them should be a godsend they've been waiting 15-20 years for. You have no idea what you're talking about, Dragonstone is one of the most strategic points of westeros, it's the stepping stone to the capital city, or a very good defensive point against invaders, depending on the situation.

Then talking about symbolism, it's again very important, the first seat of the guy who united westeros and a symbolic repetition of history for outsiders now that dany, a targ, is there.It's a very important staging place for an invasion, Look how close it is to KL.

They can sail to the blackwater easily from Dragonstone.It does hold significance, though. If you know there's a rival in Essos who is intent on  attacking you, Dragonstone is something you want to hold. Otherwise, you're giving the Essos invader an easy foothold to land their troops and plan their attacks.

It's the reason Britain being able to fend off the Nazis was so crucial, because it gave the United States a place to land their army after sending them across the ocean and acted as an easy invasion launch point. 

I can understand Cersei not going after it, she is generally an impulsive idiot, but it just seems like an oversight. Dany would have been forced to land on the mainland and march her army through an enemy territory right off the bat, or march them through Dorne or Highgarden.

And yeah, the smallfolk wouldn't need to leave. Like, they would just bend the knee the moment the Baratheons got extinguished.I'd be totally fine with that if they mentioned it or showed it somehow, but it's bad storytelling to make us come up with explanations just so it makes sense. Factor in that he was in debt to the ironbank, and nothing grows or lives on dragonstone, so it relies on supplies from the mainland, anyone that was left would have abandoned their post within months, probably.I agree, but IIRC Dragonstone is said to be easy to defend with a small garrison. If Stannis has been dead for a while now, there's absolutely no reason why:

1. The Lannisters wouldn't send some men there to hold it against Eastern invasion

2. The Lannisters wouldn't send some men to secure a castle that's easy pickings, especially if the kingdom is in rebellion. 

3. The Tyrells or someone else wouldn't snag it up because it's a free castle and land. Then again, who is gonna stay when the people paying them and shipping in food have fucked off a died?He was good in s3 too, with the gentleness to the man outside the night fort and recognizing ygrittes love interest early s4.Are you sure his is bigger than Pod's?It was just the top tower of the castle though, which wouldn't be unheard of to be only a room wideYeah, that all makes sense...but we don't see any of that. We've never seen how the faces are imbued with this magic/divine power to shapeshift you into whoever you want to be. The faces on the wall are just that, faces...but somehow Arya's Walder costume includes a full head of hair and inches of height that is never explained to us. We spent ages in Braavos and learned nothing about how the Faceless Men do what they do.Nah. It will be one olenna in highgarden and crew in dorne. I don't think anyone from the main crew is gonna die. She's going to get Nymeria back in short order since they're both in the riverlands. That will probably change her trajectory a good bit.I think she dies but not in KL.  Maybe gets captured. Isn't Arya one of the characters that GRRM said that would make it to the end?GRRM said he won't kill arya cuz his wife likes her. Also with you on this one, good point, as much as I hate to admit it. Book and Show Arya are my favourite :(They wanted to patent it first.I assume he means it's analogous to chickenpox / shingles, but is a really bad version (i.e, it's a worse disease).No, a trader brought her a doll from Dorne. It was infected with Greyscale. She put it up to her face and it was transmitted. Come on Shireen 
I swear what I mean
At this moment you mean evvverythingYeah, his eyes do that when he looks through the tree though, too. Remember when he was stuck in the visions of Hodor when the Night's King came last season? His eyes were all milked over until he popped back into reality. 

I do agree that it's kind of confusing that the same thing happens to his eyes whether he's warging or looking through the trees, though. But yeah, could just be his weirwood.net viewJamie has never really showed emotion and he tried to open up about Tommen but nothing happened. I guess it's everyone's opinion but it seemed fine to me. Maybe it just annoys me so much because Jaime has renounced Cersei in the books and yet the showrunners refuse to break them up. I mean if you really think about it he was powerless even with all of them alive and he knew that the relationships were salty with both families.  I think in the end the results were going to be the same.  The Lannisters were not going to have any real allies regardless if that Sept blew up or not.  I also don't think he has had the time to really consult her on his thoughts.  On top of that I don't believe he has any allies  aside from her, so what else is he going to do?  No one is going to be friends with the king slayer regardless if he did something to undermine Cersie after what she did.  I think we will see a scene where he says his true thoughts, and they may be more than just thoughts.Perhaps he sees the merit of the power play she made, even though it was the work of a madwoman.  I agree with OP that his reaction seems far too muted.  A scene with them arguing about what she did would have gone a long way.Not only that, he’s letting her walk over him especially with the ‘both hands’ comment from old mate Euron. The shapeshift magic part nullifies absolutely everything she said. You dismiss every single word she says as an imagined bit of nuttiness from the traumatized girl. Nobles like ignoring smallfolk without a reason anyway, and her being likely hysteric and nutty is a good enough reason anyway.It's a glorified lump of rock with a Valyrian castle on it. It can support a few troops (not an invading army) and it's most significant (known) value is that it has great places for dragons to live.

It can hardly be called a stepping stone to the capital when you can't look after an army there, and its value as a place to raise dragons is pretty much nil if you lack them.

Tell me how it's worth anything to Cersei to hold it? She's either thinning her forces on the mainland or offering them up as sacrifice to three dragons. 

Its value has always been symbolic and only then to Targaryens. By occupying it all she would have gained would be giving Daenerys an easy first win and the symbolism of recapturing her family's castle. 
Hasn't sailing the Blackwater been proven a somewhat poor choice of attack against a lunatic with Wildfire though? Something Tyrion should know all about.I don't think you can compare an island the size of Britain to Dragonstone though. Britain can support an invading army; Dragonstone is basically a small barren rock. At best it's a useful place to base dragons to attack the mainland; but in this instance if you don't have dragons yourself occupying Dragonstone is akin to sending (limited) troops to a quick and fiery death.

If this were a strategic decision Dany would have landed at Sunspear or in the Reach. The troops could have foraged from the land and maintained themselves before marching. Given the historical period and the recent events when trying to invade Kings Landing by sea (Blackwater) it's actually a far better tactic to approach by land. It's not like Cersei has been shy at deploying wild fire. 

Dragonstone is symbolic to everyone who doesn't have a dragon or know the importance of dragon glass. The Lannisters have ground their forces down fighting in Westeros - there's too little to gain by taking Dragonstone. Unless you're a small lord with nothing to hold onto and only want somewhere to defend I can't see why you would bother with it.absolutely this. If it's empty I don't understand anyone not taking it for strategic foothold. Jaime is now "in charge of the lannister army" he even mentions dragonstone why the fuck wasn't that done immediately. I don't even understand why the Dornish or anyone with a fleet doesn't take it. Especially with the talk of all the ancestral seats. Storms End is probably sitting there abandoned too ffs.Exactly. You know your enemy is coming from the east, and you have the most formidable defensive position in the entire universe that also happens to be the home of said enemy and...you leave it completely unguarded...Dragonstone is the most secure place in the world, but its not very valuable to actually keep. It doesn't have valuable lands or food stores, its an island that is pretty much some beaches and one big giant fort. I believe all it ever had of value other than the impenetrable fortification is a handful of fishing villages, which are probably gone by now.

Unless you are going to use it to hide out on, its just not a very handy fort. I mean someone probably would have tossed in a few dozen guys just in case, but I think its OK for the show to shortcut here and not bother with that. We don't need to spend our time or monetary budget on it.Is there a maester bound in service to Dragonstone? Or did the Citadel not send a replacement after the late unpleasantness.now that is a sword fight I would like to see.It's not the size, it's about how you use it. 

EDIT: Don't know what the deal is with the downvote, were explicitly told that Pod isn't hung like a horse.I kind of just think we're not supposed to see it but it's strongly implied that she's done at least a decent part of her training but set back because they didn't believe her abandonment of identity. She knows more than we think she does and that's partly because it's not important for us to know how it works so why make something up and also because it adds to the mystery of the whole thing anyway.But never promised she would survive the end!

But that also is GRRM promising his Wife years ago. GRRM isn't writing the show, and that promise can easily change as the story demands it.He promised not to kill her in TWOW. IIRC he said nothing about ADOS. That has nothing to do with the show. And I think Jon has already foreshadowed Arya's fate no matter what GRRM has promised his Wife. Even though I think I'm seeing setup to Arya's death and expect it, I'm going to be upset when she does die. Yeah, you're rightYeah, Jaimie may not be the best at showing emotion but wildfire has been a particular sensitive topic for him [Case in point](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eZ5oRxgphRc). 

I mean so many people had theorized that the Sept blasting from Cersei was the breaking point which would lead to the 'buring the letter' scene in the show. That was obviously not the case here.  A scene that shows in some level that he is extremely pissed at Cersei would be nice. Maybe a conversation with Bronn. It's pretty clear everyone was killed at dinner, and I would assume the lack of weapon wounds on their bodies and other evidence would imply poison. They may think the girl was hysterical for explaining it was a shapeshifting assassin but the 'poison' and 'north remembers' bit is entirely believableThen the best thing to do would have been to destroy the castle, So that the Invader who does have Dragons cant use it as a staging point to launch attacks on the mainland, also it would be a real drain on morale for Dany to finally get to Westeros and find her ancestral home had been burnt to the ground.Then Dany could take the US approach in the pacific in WWII. "Thanks for spending the time and resources and manpower to defend that island. I'll just conquer this other part while you're over there not able to bother me."Too much going on with the Sparrows I guess. Cersei has only now turned her attention towards Daenarys' invasion and her first thought was to identify where they'd land. It's just that it's too late for her to act now.Pylos was sent to assist Cressen before he died, I'm not sure if he went with Stannis in the books.Between Pod the Rod, Tormund's Giant Member, and Euron and his Big Cock™. We could have a good old fashioned Dick Battle Royale.What's what we have fanfics forHow did he foreshadow her fate?Yes, but Jaimie's confession in that scene is a completely different context. That is a man beaten down who has hit his low. 

> I mean so many people had theorized that the Sept blasting from Cersei was the breaking point which would lead to the 'buring the letter' scene in the show. That was obviously not the case here.

Nope, but that doesn't mean his behavior is unreasonable. It's pretty logical imo. Cersei is a crazy bitch that indirectly killed all our children. Cersei shows no remorse. Cersei can easily kill me. I better tread lightly. Who knows maybe we will get that.  Unfortunately, because of there only being a few shows left I don't know how much of the conversational stuff we are really going to get as we have gotten a ton of that for years now.Well I've said the same thing six times and you are seeming to avoid comprehending it, so go read one of my previous replies instead of this one, it'll work out to being the same thing.Does the castle enhance your ability to stage an attack? It doesn't give you the ability to grow food and the dragon benefit comes from the volcanic activity.

Can a Valyrian castle be destroyed by conventional means? (Serious question: I don't know). I agree it would be a victory to destroy it, if you could, from a morale perspective. That and Arya/Ghost sex scenes"The longer you hide, the sterner the penance. You’ll be sewing all through winter. When the spring thaw comes, they will find your body with a needle still locked tight between your frozen fingers.” --JonI agree if the takeaway you got was that Jaimie was just treading lightly, it makes some sense. But that wasn't the case for me. But hey lets hope it works out and Jaimies arc and character development is good in the show.I comprehend it just find, I just disagree with your interpretation you condescending jackass. Well the castle gives you somewhere warm to garrison your men, but other than that I don't suppose it does really add an advantage. I don't know if it can, but I also don't see why it couldn't be destroyed using wild fire or even torn apart brick by brick.What the fuckWow, I hope it's not true! And thanks for taking the time to show me that.Yeah you're right you could keep warm and have some shelter from the elements. 

I reckon the only person currently (in show and book) who could destroy it would be Dany. As I understand it Valyrian castles were built with some weird fused stone (to the point that it looks like it was almost carved solid out of a single piece of rock like Michelangelo's David). I think the stone was fused using blood / dragon magic - it's a safe bet that probably only dragon fire can melt it apart. That said, wild fire is also magical so it possibly could do the same job. I can't think of a conventional way to pull it down.Don't go ranging too far into the lands beyond fanfiction.net, there are things out there that would make a grown man perish in frighti thought it was the new T-800 model?! But actually its kind of based on Ser Waymar Royce..Macumber confirmedIt's not him, Win Win got his right eye pierced by Ramsay's arrow.> Anyone else notice the giant at the beginning

Nope, I must have completely missed him...They more then likely burned his body, along with every dead man that died that day.  He died at Winterfell, south of the wall.. the army of the dead is north of the wall.Right, presently we know that the army is north of the wall. But we don't know where they will be in the future. I was either reading or watching somewhere that Bran could possibly see into the future. 

And why the zoom into the giant's face, and make a special note of his one eye?Its the wrong eye anyway. Wun wun's right eye was pierced by that bolt.  Bran cant see the future, he can only see the past through living treest, and what not.  He is obviously more powerful then Bloodraven though as we know he warged Hodor decades ago and told him to hold a door in the present time.  Theres nothing in the books or show that say anything about the future.i think it's to emphasize that the NK can bring anything back to life, including so-called mythical things like giants and dragons. the zoom on the eye is just good cinematography and is a classic way to transition scenes in movies/tv.In one of his visions mid season 6 he saw Cercei's wildfire explosion, which hasn't happened yet.

https://youtu.be/6qsQUroPq3g?t=29s

It was tucked in between the Mad king flashes but it's the explosion at the sept.

I'm really not sure. **Maybe they just reused the clip and it wasn't really meant for it to mean he saw the future?**

idk...There has been discussion around this, and also about the previous 3 eyed raven being able to do soLots of planets have two moons, doesn't make the seasons irregular. >"He told me the moon was an egg, Khaleesi," the Lysene girl said. "Once there were two moons in the sky, but one wandered too close to the sun and cracked from the heat. A thousand thousand dragons poured forth, and drank the fire of the sun. That is why dragons breathe flame. One day the other moon will kiss the sun too, and then it will crack and the dragons will return." (AGOT Daenerys III)

Perhaps the red comet will cause this second eclipse, it definitely seems pseudo-scientific/magical in nature, and I think it could go several ways. I've written a couple posts trying to find scientific explanation for the magical events in the story; I like this one too.
I was thinking a binary star system. With one being a small dwarf star that is very cool. GRRM did mention once that the reason is magical.Anyone grab a screenshot as Sam was turning the pages?

I want to read what it says about itArya has it on her belt in some promo pics posted by HBO too. I wonder how she gets it o.OYeah, that catspaw will eventually be found amongst LF's personal things at WF. It will be his figurative and literal demise, at the skilled left hand of Arya.I totally saw this, and was thinking about that blade and its origins during my rewatch of the show. 

I thought catspaw was the name of the anonymous assassin who tried to kill Bran? Aside from the origin of the name; if I'm wrong,I find it quite the silly name of a weapon that basically ignites a conflict between the noble houses. 

It's like if the gun used to kill archduke ferdinand was called "puppy ears"Catspaw knifes bran to start the story, someone knifes NK (BRAN) to end the story.

I don't actually believe this btw.[thedagger](http://imgur.com/rjfu04p)I'm calling it 'catspaw' because everyone knows what knife you're talking about when you say catspaw. whereas if one refers to it as 'littlefinger's dagger', 'the assassination dagger', or 'joffrey/tyrion's dagger' it tends to confuse people. Yeah, catspaw is the person, not the name of the knife.

It apparently comes from [The monkey and the cat](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat%27s_paw) and basically refers to someone being used by someone else.Well Bran didn't get knifed, they tried but they only got to Cat('s paws) before Summer mauled the catspaw Thanks! Got any more shots from the sequence? (im greedy, i know)That image isn't mine. Unfortunately I'm watching the season in 720dp and my screenshots are really bad quality. lol noLooks like you forgot that dead bodies decay over timeClearing the Winterfell crypts of wights is the ultimate side questSo, water drauger?

If wights are getting raised south of the wall the north is gonna get over run with whatever is in the barrows. YikeSome of the wights in the show are lacking most of their flesh and I cant remember how old tywin is but know he did it as a teenager so lets say forty years ago. There will still be alot of skeletoms down thereThat would be cool if the Others breach the Wall, and all of a sudden the crypts at Winterfell are alive with moaning and rattling, as the Kings and Stark decedents come awake as wights. Yea it could get pretty crazyIm not an expert but I am pretty sure that bones would decay if left in muddy water for 40 yearsWasn't swamp-like terrain among the best at preserving bodies, naturally "mummificating" them?Yea not an expert either so I wouldn't have a clue I thought bones take ages to break downyea compare the time and planning back story that went into the purple wedding poisening and this just seems like a very michael bay sorta assassination... cue badass line, cue slow walk out, cue smile/sunglasses.  Her taking out of the house of Frey was actually a little bit... anti-climactic. One area where GRRM excels is in making our heroes' revenge so very *satisfying*. I feel like this scene had to have been a TV thing, because it really lacked the buildup that normally makes his scenes so satisfying (or devastating).

And yes, it makes Arya way too powerful.Yall overanalyze the fuck out of every little thing lmaoShe's not supposed to slow down, the House of Black and White is owed a crap ton of money by the Crown/Lanisters. She's supposed to even that out.Next thing you know you see Cersei walking down some hallway in the Red Keep, Un-Gregor escorting her throughout the keep. They take a turn down a particularly unused hallway and Un-Gregor reaches out and chokes out Cersei. Once finished, Un-Gregor pulls off his helmet, and then his mask revealing Arya underneath. Thus fulfilling the prophecy of the Valonqar snuffing out Cersei.If anyone is OP, it's Danny.

She's got the soldiers and numbers to take on all the seven kingdoms combined, and the secret weapon to killing wights and Walkers....times three.I can swallow her killing a whole room of people by poisoning a single barrel of wine.  But, if so, would there really be NO ONE left outside around the great hall?  Surely, even during a feast they'd have a couple of armed guards at the door, or a garrison of troops in the barracks?  She looks too powerful in the Twins scenario is because she is filling the role of LSH and whole BwB. A pack of people would do it in books , but they gotta get rid of Walder and Co so fused it with Arya's revenge track. Arya is gonna relax for sometime now. And she needs it badly. Girl gotta get back to her family and feel the warmth of loved ones again. Her little smiles and subtle emotions during the Lannister soldier scene breaks the heart. The Valonqar can take care of Cersei. I mean... all she really did was wear walders face. She just poisoned a shitload of wine, which isn't super hard. I think it showed how potent her powers can be, but it wasnt a suspension of belief as a lot of people are saying.> Talking about Arya here. She wiped out an entire house single handed with no resistance

The Freys aren't exactly  formidable oppositionTo me, it doesn't really matter how powerful she is against humans. The end game is the white walkers and she doesn't have much power against them.Arya will try and deface unGregor only to realize it's poor dead Ned's head under there.Id like to echo a comment i saw in a different thread.. 

"OK.. So now everytime im watching a scene i have to think that Arya could be any one of those people AND that Bran is possibly influencing their decisions...?
"Have to wonder if Arya thinks Sansa killed Joffrey.  No reason to think otherwise at the moment. You would think she would head North If she knows Jon and Sansa have winterfellIs it really that hard to poison a bit of wine?this majoras mask shit is getting really fucky..

how does she just change height and accents perfectly? freys are idiots. it wont be as easy for arya to trick the others she wants to kill. this was a good warmup thoI don't really like what they are doing with Arya. She seems like an unstoppable superhero, when, at the very end of her training, all she had learned in Bravos was fighting with a stick in the dark. The only earned skill I can buy is the face changing (even that seems rushed tbh, she just happened to know how to do it on her own at some point)Her conscience. I got a feeling shes gonna get chased by the faceless men, offering the wrong people to the manyfaced god gotta be a no noYou don't have to be "powerful" to poison a bunch of wine. Just smart. It's not like she fought the whole room singlehandedly, she just had a disguise and a good idea. The episode provided your answer: by causing her to reflect on the nature of humanity. By realizing what's important in life: family. 

She's going home once she realizes Jon and Sansa are in Winterfell. I have a feeling she *may* have to contend with faceless men being sent to bring her to 'justice'.That Lannister campfire scene set the stage IMO. Now she realizes that she can hurt a lot of people by killing. Next episode she'll find Nymeria and realize she shouldn't go to King's Landing at all, she'll head north for home. Walder wasn't especially difficult to get to, but I feel she'd have a much harder time getting to Cersei. She could totally just pretend to be a maid or serving girl and poison her wine, but you bet Arya wants to slit her throat.The slippery slope here is the writers have basically created a Deus Ex Machina.

She literally can be anyone now.

She can kill Cersei as Jaime

She can kill Mel as Davos

She can kill Litterfinger as Sansa (Remember Sansa giving  the "Lone wolf dies, but the pack survives" speech in the trailer?- thats from an Arya chapter)

She can maybe even take Gregors face and kill everyone. 
She can take faces, so it's not really that she is "too powerful", she just has the element of surprise enhanced by the fact that she can assume the identities of people her victims trust or don't notice.

People are talking about how easy it was for her. Why wouldn't it be?When you make a character so overpowered it makes said character less interesting; if she can do all the shit she did in this episode, why not go to king's landing and finish the lannisters too ? Or other enemies of the starks ?

This was really cutting corners, in a really bad way, i'm pretty sure this will never happen in the show again, and it was just a fan servicey moment; the most we will get is probably arya taking sansa's form and tricking littlefinger into something that will get him killed or something similar.

Edit: Also, there was no tension when she met those soldiers, first i was like : oh shit maybe they're gonna attack her but then i remembered she's OP as shit and will probably cut them in 2 seconds.Seems like faceless men should be coming for her. I don't know if it necessarily fits with their philosophy, but they taught her to change faces for a reason and then she left and is using it for her own benefit rather than in service to the many faces godIt really annoyed me that Arya knew that Talisa was pregnant even though she only told Robb right before they got killed.Which house will she poison next? Maybe Lannisters right? she hates them.Idk why y'all think that what Arya does is impossible. The faceless men do the same shit changing their voices and height. Did it not occur to the faceless men that heights and voices need to be accounted for when disguised as someone else? They have magic, pretty sure this is taken care of..As far as this universe goes, this is believableI dont think arya will kill cersei because I believe that she will bump into....

Gendry!She also grew/shrank by a foot when changing faces and managed to slip poison in all the wine so that only the "bad guys" dies, while all the "good girls" lived. Then again, she was able to butcher and bake Frey pie at the Twins completely unnoticed and leap over buildings in a single bound despite bleeding like a pig last season too :/ Then there was the whole Ed Sheeran/campfire scene which was just too cute by a half. 

Hopefully, her story will improve when she meets Nymeria again next week, which seemed to be implied from the preview.I was mainly wondering how the hell she got her hands on that much poison. There must have been like twenty pitchers of wine, all of them poisoned enough to where one sip meant near-instantaneous death. That was a little silly.

I think it's implied that she can only take the face of someone she has killed, though, so to get close to Cersei she'd have to kill somebody who could get within hugging distance of the queen. There's not many of those.She's not going south to Cersei I thought that was clear by her expressions.I thought the same, really overpower, but I guess this will be her last hero action, I'm afraid she will die on the way to kill the queen, maybe she will kill another character but I don't think she will manage to kill Cersei.....also I'm afraid that a friend of her could kill her while she is in disguise :(The most cheese ball opening scene I could have ever witnessed.

Assassin School drop out, singlehandedly destroying the world. So dumb.I liked how she very nicely left all the female Freys alive because gurlpower even though she's just given them all a slower death because they're now alone in a castle without any fighting men and everyone around for a hundred miles hates them. I don't think they entirely thought out that last partThe whole faceless shape-shifting power seems like a Deus-ex Machina for Arya. How do you enable a lil girl with nothing to take revenge, give her super power.. infinite power. She can do whatever she wants, become one of those Lannister Army boys in the next episode and get into King's Landing, become Jamie and kill Cersie..Arya's orgy of vengeance against the Freys is going to have to be paid for somehow.

Maybe she'll get killed off? :/

I think arya is about to go about something of a transformation. Meeting these lannister soldiers--who took her in and fed her and shared their stories with her--is going to help her realize the enemy's humanity. And that transformation will slow her down.just don't put her in the next episode and only have her appear when you need some people dead for plot advancement. Random Lannister supporters will just show up dead in Kings Landing, Cersei will get more and more paranoid about the enemies without and within and that'll contribute to her eventual downfall.To be honest as much as I like Arya I hope they kill her off in the show. That scene at the very begining was ridiculous. She basically wiped out whole house just like that. The storyline in the book about the decline of House Frey is much more believable and interesting, instead of a little girl going Jonestown on House Frey.     A 5 foot tall 16 year old girl "face-changing" into a 6 foot tall 100 year old man and mimicing his voice and mannerisms perfectly?  What's wrong with that?

Edit: Oh, the voice and mannerisms of SOMEONE SHE HAS NEVER MET. 

Edit Edit: Okay she met him for an indeterminate amount of time before she killed him that was at least a few hours and possibly as long as weeks. Point still stands that its sucky because we spent multiple years on her training and learned nothing about how it works or if it has limitations. They slow her down by telling her that her family has Winterfell again. Face shifting powers aren't so usefull against ice zombies. cersei is gonna get killed by one of her brothers. She's the lone wolf, how do you think the writers are gonna slow her down?But what if she IS the valonquar?  The seer could have easily seen Arya wearing a face.In the books I think unGregor is powered by kings blood from Robb's head.this is a crazy idea. how effed up and cool would that be?This face swap was not a surprise. One day there will be one that is a surprise and comes out of nowhere.

My guess would have to be the killing of Cersei.Jaqen (or the people wearing that face) seemed to have no trouble keeping the same accent. It must be part of the magic of the faces.She can perfectly assume the identity of anyone regardless of height, weight, or age. There is no way to reasonably stop her, powerful can have more meanings than someone who's swinging 20' sword around.But not before gushing all over Ed Sheehan.And Bran!It does make sense that Arya should have to face (haha) justice. Once the Wall is breached, focus - and storylines - will presumably shift north, so I wonder how the Faceless Men can be elegantly woven back into the plot (read: no friggen oranges) with the WW gaining ground. "On second thought, let us not go to King's Landing, 'tis a silly place."She'll wear Jamie's face to fulfill the prophecy of the valonqar.The Freys are/were idiots. Walder was a grumpy old man that no one wanted to be around, demonstrated by the fact that he was eating dinner alone when Arya got to him.

Unless this episode took place immediately after Walder's death, Arya could have been playing as Walder for weeks preparing the poison and the feast. It will take much more time and effort to get to Cersei, hidden away in a big, well-guarded castle. Even if Arya gets close, Cersei is always shown pouring her own wine and rarely has anyone except the ~~King's~~ Queen's Guard with her.She wants her headShe would need to kill Jamie to get to Cersei. Jamie, even one-handed, is a seasoned killer and suspicious as well. Arya couldn't just become a guard or servant to try and kill Jamie, he almost always has his armor on in the palace and is always armed. Poison would make the most sense but she would have to do it in a way that no one sees him die and she can hide or dispose of his body. She would also need to observe him long enough to take on his mannerisms to not make Cersei suspicious, even though Cersei has already made herself distant to Jamie most of the time. It would be very difficult to get to Cersei from any direction as anyone. The only people she lets get close to her are Ser Robert Strong and Qyburn, her new Hand. Qyburn may be the easier route, but Arya would need to get in his good graces as a little bird or servant first before taking him out. 

Arya is not as powerful as everyone here is saying, we didn't see the possible weeks or months or preperation Arya had when taking out the Freys, we only saw the moneyshots. It's not a Deus Ex Machina, something which by definition appears out of thin air, if she has been doing nothing else apart from training for those exact situations for 2 seasons with the best assassins in the ASOIAF universe.  Like, to the point where people were comparing her arc to Dorne it was so dull and repetitive.  

Still, we know exactly where this "machina" came from, and it wasn't the Gods. Sure, the Many Faced God may be involved in *some* way, but she worked and paid for this more than we've seen pretty much anyone else work for anything in the series; apart from maybe Jon emerging from a mountain of bodies or Gendry on his epic boat row.

But she is just as human as anyone else and her warpath south may be abruptly terminated once word of her family at Winterfell arrives. *That* will be her Achilles heel.arya thought this about jaquen the first time she met him, but rules of his universe (aka, GRRM) necessitated that he couldn't actually just kill any name arya gave him. perhaps her universe will prove to be just as well-balanced, despite what she wishes it could be. something will keep her from being able to achieve all this.By definition one can not create Deus Ex Machina.How is it overpowered?  Don't you think a Faceless Man in the books could poison a couple barrels of wine and imitate an old man?  Is it that far off?

Unless Jaqen just lied to her in Season 2, where he very explicitly told her that she should come to Braavos if she wants to kill the people on her list. Oh come on this is D&D we're talking about, I don't think they know what the word "consequence" means. Walder said she was pregnant right away, in front of everyone. What Talisa told Rob right before they got killed was that she thought it was a boy, and wanted to name him Ned. Other people knew, that's why they stabbed her in the belly so many times.What indicated she knew Talisa was pregnant?The grey bragged about every aspect of the red wedding. I wouldn't find it unreasonable that everyone now knows how house Frey killed the king in the north along with his queen and unborn son.Face stealing transfers some memories, maybe that's how she learned It's fucking creepy though. Arya's head on a man-sized body made me uneasy.Of course she *could*. It's a story, and she has magic. She could do pretty much anything.

But how is the story going to stay interesting when she can now kill literally anyone she wants to?None of the girls drank and she stopped Walder's wife.

Also, her body obviously changes with the face change. Just changing a face and not a body would be almost useless.She stopped the girl from drinking the wine, they showed that. And the Faceless Men established that they could change body shapes with a face as well.I think part of her training for the Faceless Men was in making and identifying potions. Could be wrong but I assumed she brewed that herself.she's not getting past UnGregor. i think she goes north.> so to get close to Cersei she'd have to kill somebody who could get within hugging distance of the queen.

Leap frog from one to another. Kill a random guard. Kill his boss. Keep moving up the chain.I agree. The people I was watching with loved it, but I couldn't help but think it was corny as all hell. To be honest Walder Frey's death was kind of lame also. It didn't feel like vengeance at all, she just shows up and now all the Freys are dead. Okay. Maybe show some of the infiltration? I know the show doesn't have a lot of time to close up loose ends, but it felt like they were just checking off the "Freys die" box. 

edit: downvoting will not change my opinion.i agree, luckily the episode was pretty good for a premiere one, but jesus christ, the first scene was one of the worst in the seriesWell, she only killed Lord Walder's sons and grandsons and such. There'll be plenty of soldiers left, though it's not likely that all of them will stick around after what happened to all their lords. She probably didn't wipe out an entire castle worth of men, just the lord and his personal heirs. Lord Walder had dozens of sons and even more grandsons, and there are problably more Freys in the world; "he" does say that these are all the Freys worth a damn. There'll be some cousins and whatnot who might try to gather the pieces, though they'll probably get wrecked by the Freys' enemies.Deus-ex Machina refers to a device emerging out of the blue. In the show she's been training in Bravoos for years.How is it a Deus-ex Machina when it's literally what she's been training to do for two seasons?  Why else go to Braavos?  It's not like she got this superpower in one epic training montage.  So far her travels, over 6 seasons, was from Winterfell to Kings Landing, escaping across the Riverlands, and then go to Braavos to look for Jaqen.  Her having this power is literally the culmination of her entire plotline.  Now what will she do with it, can she learn compassion again, will she get caught, those are interesting questions.I'm curious to see how they'll do that considering she ate their food and drank their wine, which would seem to imply that she accepted guest right. If she were to kill them, she would be no better than Walder Frey whom she killed for essentially doing the same thing. I'm sure the writers will let her do it anyway, but it would be kinda lame. If it happens, I have a feeling it might be while she's wearing the face of an enemy and then one of the protagonists inadvertently kill her during a battle or something. She also saved one of the Frey wives by stopping her from drinking the wine."Poison half a dozen jars of wine" So unrealistic! 

What's unrealistic is that nobody seems to care a whole House has been wiped out. Cersei and Jaime should be a lot more worried about who killed them all and how. Same with the Lannister soldiers "there seems to be some trouble, lol".Yeah, but it's the Freys. Hell, they're so stupid that if she hung a piece of cheese at the end of a walkway leading off a sheer cliff, they'd probably all follow single file to the deaths. I don't read the books myself, (to be fair we're beyond book territory at this point anyway) but I think that the main reason they had her wipe out the entire house was so that they can start tying up all the loose ends as the show wraps up. 

It might not have been the most believable scene, but I think it was a pretty badass way to end the Frey storyline given that we're down to the last 12 episodes or whatever we're at. She learned the art of poisons, she can fight effectively in the dark, she observed Frey long enough to know how to talk like her, and she can literally take on faces. How was that scene unrealistic?It's magic. So... immortal ice wizards, undead wights, and dragons birthed from petrified stone through blood magic are all ok, but mimicry is off the table?I think they gave us all that we needed to know. She can become someone else, but the Faceless Men (and by extension Arya) need to have the face of the person that they are becoming. After that, magic kicks in, and they are literally that person physically. 

The Faceless Men still have to know how the person they are becoming acts. That was the point of Arya watching and learning all she could about her targets in Braavos. 

If we watch the training closely, it really tells us a great deal about how the process works. Whether it has limitations is another story, however...Given that most people don't know about "face-changing", it doesn't matter if Arya doesn't get all of Walder's mannerisms down perfectly. The assembled Freys see Dad/Grandpa, sitting where he always sits, they have no reason to doubt him.She's trained for this though - once you get hit with sticks enough times while blinded, you can do anything.

On a more serious note, I think some 'magic' is involved with face-changing, it's not just a leather mask. You probably take on other characteristics of the person you're face-changing to. Otherwise, skin complexion would be a very difficult obstacle to overcome - particularly in Essos, where people are bit more diverse.There's this little thing called *magic*No, it's not a matter of time. This is magic. She takes his identity. The face is just a symbol for that.I thought Maisie Williams did an excellent impression of David Bradley.She may have spent an indeterminate amount of time observing him as the serving gurl though.She has met him though, shes in the previous episode of Season 6 when Bronn and Jaime are at the Freys (Before Walder is killed)

She even asks Bronn and Jaime if they need anything in that scene, and we don't know how longs shes been there. She would have had plenty of time to study his mannerisms.I think the mask thing is mainly symbolic and the Faceless Men fully transform into the person when they put it on. It's not just a physical mask they cover their face with while otherwise retaining their own form. As for his mannerisms, maybe she spent some time as that servant girl to observe him. It was still a bit dodgy but it's not the biggest reach the show has made.Someone she's never met? You mean, except for the season 6 finale, where she was shown to have infiltrated The Twins at some point after the end of the Siege of Riverrun, but before Walder celebrated it? For all we know, Arya spent several days doing nothing but serving and studying Lord Walder before she finally got enough alone-time with him to cut off his face. She has met him; she had been at the Twins last season disguised as that servant girl.Yeah—now that you put it that way, it makes the scene seem so much lamer We don't really know how long Arya was disguised as a servant in his house, waiting for her chance to strike. 

Literally half her time spent in Bravos was all about her learning to meld into her surroundings and the people, learning who goes where, does what, and how.

I mean it's kinda simple really. It doesn't take much to mimic his attitude and I assume all she had to do to gather the Freys was write a letter or two. She probably spent at least a week there making sure she had it all set up. 

The only assumption we have to make is that when making the mask out of his face, it also supernaturally gives her the ability to mimic his voice. That's not a very big assumption since we see the Faceless do this throughout the show, iirc.  She also probably never really had to "reveal" how tall she was and break the disguise. Walder spends a lot of time alone and a lot of time sitting down. Very few people would notice, and many that do would just assume he's hunched over or something.Yeah that shit bugged me. Like I knew where that opening sequence was going, but I had some half hearted hope it was Jaqen because having it be Arya just stretches the ability of withholding disbelief.Basically, for the purposes of the show, Arya is a shapeshifter. It's hardly the dumbest thing in the show, but it lets us know that the same thing isn't happening in the books.This did require suspension of disbelief...

On the flip side she would have spent some time observing him before slitting his throat. Besides I don't know if the fact that when you take on somebody's face, you tend to absorb their memories is clearly established in the show.The voice is due to magic no?

As for the mannerisms, she's already seen Frey talk quite a bit, and I *did* think that Arya-as-Walder was a tiny bit off in the mannerisms, which was likely intentional.She's going to arrive at a tavern, maybe the one where Hot Pie is, and she will hear some men talk about how Ned Stark's bastard is now the king in the north, that will shock her a liitle bit and that's when she decides to go to the north. To see Jon and Sansa.[deleted]Correct me if I'm wrong here.

We know that High Valyrian doesn't have strongly gendered nouns. We know this because Aemon remarks that The Prince That Was Promised could just as easily be the Princess That Was Promised.

So couldn't "the valonqar" actually also mean "little sister"?

We've always assumed it's talking about Jaime or Tyrion, but I think "The Little Sister" could easily refer to either Danaerys (Rhaegar's little sister) or Arya (the Stark little sister). Or even Nymeria, the little sister of the wolf she had killed.

Maybe there's something out there that disagrees with this that I'm forgetting.

Edit: Apparently this one has been debunked, and "valonqar" is gendered. It's just that the word for Prince isn't.What if it's Aria with Jaime's face? Cersei would die thinking its prophecy fulfilled. This would also work to get past her guards.Of course Jaime is the one to do it.  We've known for ages.Valonqar means little brother sooooo maybe Euron? He is the second greyjoy son. It is possibleIf she continues on her journey to kill Cercei, she will die.  
But I think she will turn around, after seeing Nymeria and remembering her fathers advice.  
Plus Jon, Sansa, and Bran all being alive in Winterfell will be hard for her to give up, just to get revenge on Cercei.Well that one bit of monologue in the preview would suggest that "the lone wolf dies"make her [row](http://imgur.com/gallery/wVKA9YW) her way there.  
I mean, don't we all? Totally. I didn't mention Bran because I'm not sure whether she'll hear about Jon and Sansa first (i.e. before word spreads in the North about Bran's continued existence) or after Bran reaches Winterfell. 

Certainly, if she hears about all three she's coming home for sure. Prob what Bronn (and Jaime) thought at the end of last seasonBy Deus Ex Machina, I meant more of the effect it has on storytelling--

--meaning, theoretically, if she has no rules to follow, the writers can have her pop up at any moment as any person to resolve a plot point via the pointy end of her needle. The faceless men's power was shrouded in identity and implied some form of identity death and devotion to attain it. Their motives are also nebulous. Power like that shouldn't come without compromise in this universe.

Instead, arya went to bravos, fucked around for a couple of seasons and then comes back with a superpower without having being compromised as a character. It's incredibly trite and lazy writing. The show writers have taken a concept full of mystery and intrigue (the faceless men) and decided throw it out of the window in favour of using them as an excuse for Arya's superpowers. Yes she is,because she doesn't suffer any consequences.She is only a terminator   without any emotions who  can survive any given situation because she has plot armour.Pretty sure he never said that. But maybe I'm remembering wrong. Have a link to this scene?This is what I've been using to describe why I hate the later seasons.  The books deal with consequence all the time.  The show just does whatever will get the most likes and fanservice and then ignores all the fallout.She said it in her speech as Walder. Something like "It was really fun to kill the starks, murder the pregnant wife and baby and slit Catelyn's throat." something like that but she mentions it during the toastWhose face?By making her realize that murdering anyone she wants to is wrong.  You know, exactly what they've started doing with the Lannister soldier scene.> None of the girls drank and she stopped Walder's wife.

I know, that's the point. It was way too convenient. Then again, the whole scene and timeline behind it were utterly contrived and ridiculous too. 

As for changing faces. Sure, some slight changes in body type/posture are to be expected, but there is no precedent for such a large change. I mean, they're called "faceless men", not shape shifters :/  I know she stopped the girls from drinking, but it's absurd to think that none of them drank any of the wine before the start of the scene, or that her poisoning (where did she get so much poison anyway? she's be impersonating Walder Frey for weeks leading up to this point...) would/could/should only target the men. It was ridiculous. Who put the poison in the wine in the first place, if not the girls and why don't they "deserve" to die just as much as the men? It was a cheap murder porn gimmick, slathered in "grrrl power". At this rate I would not be surprised when UnGregor kills Cersei and then rips off his face and it's Arya.That's something Rick C-137 would do.I agree. I think a lot of people here went a little to long without game of thrones and are in denial. It was a mediocre episode at best.   And I thought it was one of the best.  We've been looking forward to Arya flexing her muscles for YEARS.  She's been training for this for 2 seasons, and the only other story she's had has been with the Hound.  What else is there for her to do?  Also likely a whole bunch of little children. She really just wiped out the men that were likely involved in the Red Wedding in some capacity.>Now what will she do with it, can she learn compassion again, will she get caught

Well said. Arya's arc got much more interesting after her dinner with the Lannister soldiers if nothing else than to ask these questions of her.Precisely, we've all known how OP the Faceless men are since season 2. Jaqen killed a whole shift of guards to allow for Arya's escape. He protested against the demand because Death would receive too many souls, and not because it was hard. Of course Jaqen is a lot more experienced than Arya, but I don't see how emulating Walder Frey is too difficult a feat for an inexperienced faceless assassin. >  If she were to kill them, she would be no better than Walder Frey whom she killed for essentially doing the same thing.

You can see the difference, right? She's no better in terms of that tradition, but it's not objectively true that that tradition is sacred.

Arya was out for revenge and a childish version of it, at that. Her killing Lannister men who had nothing directly to do with her family's plight would already be morally questionable, at best. But this scene made it seem like she was starting to realize that they weren't really her enemies and that killer them didn't get her anything.She killed him because he killed her family *while* breaking guest right.She doesn't care about being better, she wants to get even.So that someone would be alive to tell the tale.  That's the same reason Ollie  was spared by the Thenns, for example.Jamies worried about it, but they've got a 100,000 strong army less than a few weeks away from KL. Who killed the Frey's isn't as important. Cersei is just nuts now. > Cersei and Jaime should be a lot more worried about who killed them all and how.

I think they're at the denial phase right now. They know *something* has happened. They have sent a scouting mission to confirm what is going on. The true impact of what is happening and its implication on their lives will likely come crashing down at them at the same time as Arya gets there.That's not the unrealistic part. What makes it unrealistic is that Arya has been there for such a short time, but somehow she learned how Lord Frey acts and how to talk like him. It just wasn't fun and realistic how fast they got rid of the whole house. 

And you're right. Noone gives two shits that their allies have been wiped out in one day!You're right but the point is that that's lazy writingMan, slaughtering centuries old houses is *easy.*Mary Sue much?Ridiculous not unrealistic.> she observed Frey long enough to know how to talk like him

lol

I don't understand how this is so difficult for people to understand, from the very beginning it was made abundantly clear that some magic was involved with the Faceless Men. You mean his 40+ great grandsons wouldn't analyze every word or movement, then decide their 100+ year old patron is acting a bit weird so obviously some 13 year old girl has stolen his face and plans to murder them all?!Maybe this is your first fantasy/superpowers show, but magic works best when it is explained and has limitations. All-powerful magicians lead to really terrible stories. season 6 finaleIsn't that the scene where she killed him? She had the voice down, but I feel like she wasn't acting very much like Walder during her speech. He sounded like he actually appreciated his men and didn't complain hardly at all. In past scenes with Walder, he always had something to grumble about and was always objectifying the women around him. Arya didn't play Walder that way at all. The men may have thought that Walder was going soft after "earning" his title as Warden of the Riverlands or whatever it was, but it was probably more of the fact that Arya was playing Walder for much longer than we see. The funny thing is... I completely forgot that Arya killed Walder last year because that scene was a sudden teleport outta nowhere that didn't get a chance to sink in when it was done.  So first I was confused, then I realized what was happening and hoping it was a dream, then when it wasnt a dream I had to remember that they actually did kill Walder on cam last year.  But this all ties into my comments elsewhere about the terrible pacing and how we're getting physical resolutions but not emotional ones. >  it lets us know that the same thing isn't happening in the books

Arya gaining the memories of the people she face-changes into is just as magical as shapeshifting. Not to mention Melisandre's glamouring.You really think Arya is coming away from Bravos without the ability to perform glamours like the faceless men?Frankly, the faceless men in the book have to emply at least SOME kind of shapeshifting, too.

Its not just slappng a meat mask on their face.Specially because we have Lady Stoneheart in the books.You can *never* trust the solids!People die and come back, Melisandre has some sort of full body glamour. People warg into animals and see through time.  So believing shapeshifting is a thing is fine. Its just that shapeshifting+ is kind of like a double-power and we have no explanation of how it works or if it has limitations even though we sort of watched her get training for 2 seasons.  As a superhero fan, that's the kind of lazy and unacceptable thing that we can and should complain about. 

Do you also take on matter and become noticeably taller and full of mass when you take on somebody's face? I loved the scene, but it really makes Arya OP in my opinion. I think that was the first time I had seen "Walder" stand in the series, so yeah, a little out of character and not a perfect Walder.Yeah, I think the insinuation is that because she was acting as a maid at the first feast she saw him and how he acts so she was able to learn his mannerisms that way? For me, it's not really any different to James Bond being a double 0 agent and a skillset to get the job done no matter what, even in the face of adversity. Yeah it was pretty clearly not Walder based on 'mannerisms'. This. 

[Spoilers Extended](/s "There is an official pic of Arya in an inn, probably in the Riverlands still because of the lightning. And she has some type of "realization" face, I am almost certain that this is her getting to know about the Jon being King in the North. After that, she will change paths and be bound to Winterfell, and only then, when she has the mindset of returning to her pack, she will meet Nymeria")[removed][They will meet again.](https://youtu.be/yAyCpREHf6k)

Mobile YoutubeThink about it in usage though. A Prince/Princess is a rank. Its the same thing just gendered like actor and actress. Its a lot harder in language not to differentiate between brother and sister as its not a title its something in relation to something else. Think of how awkward it would be in English to always use sibling and then have to clarify male and female ones.Wait, where and how has it been debunked?I hope it isn't Arya and it isn'tWay to predictable an ending tbhIt is known.I don't know I know ALL the evidence points to Jamie but fuck i would love seeing Tyrion do it just to spit in her face after No we haven't. The most likely is Arya poisoning her.Or Arya will kill Jaime, take his face and kill Cersei. If that happens Cersei will be killed by her younger brother. Thats the thing with prophecies
It means younger sibling. It's non sex defined.whyCould mean she rejoins the pack, effectively killing the lone wolf and strengthening the pack.http://rebloggy.com/post/1k-got-arya-stark-gendry-waters-hot-pie-got-got-spoilers-arya-x-gendry-gendry/47445269520♫ I will remember you,
Will you remember me? ♫What the heck, that gif is awful.First off, it’s not as if the powers of the Faceless Men are unknown or altogether uncommon, they do market their services to at least some degree.  We are just as likely to see a different Faceless Man kill someone as we are Arya.  That’s what makes them so formidable and fearsome. Hell, she’s probably in their sights now anyways since she ran away.  So if you’re looking for a barrier to her going god-mode, that’s my main bet.

Second, Arya still has a very important storyline to carry out apart from stealing faces.  Her only reason for going to the Faceless Men was because she believed her whole family was killed and she was being hunted.  The only reason she survived her training was by endlessly repeating her death list mantra of everyone she held responsible for her family’s death.  The only reason she has returned is to carry out her vengeance on those she holds responsible.  

The moment she hears she has 3 family members chillin’ up North and consolidating massive power and loyalty her entire plan will change. 

Third, everything you listed is just as likely to happen now as it was going to before, without the addition of Arya to Westeros.  

Jamie is becoming more and more likely to kill Cersei every time she opens her mouth.

Davos’ killing Mel would be a much more pertinent irony to the story if he, justly, eliminates a very powerful Fire Priestess right as the Wall begins to crumble.

Gregor is *already* going to kill everyone when Cersei loses it and are you seriously suggesting that Arya will kill her family member in order to kill a man tangentially responsible for killing her other family members?  

I mean, all of this would be pointless and unnecessary considering many people in-universe are being set up to receive their comeuppance in quite satisfying fashions; though I will grant there will probably be a few disappointing developments along the way.  

Still, Arya isn’t going to go teleporting around Westeros offing traitorous highborns willy-nilly, at least not yet.  Nymeria is roaming as resident Queen of the Wolves not that far away from her, she and the Hound could reasonably be expected to reunite soon as well, then there’s Mel and I think it’s a pretty safe bet she will at least *try* to return to her family once she hears of them, as that’s the one thing she’s been fighting for since Syrio told her to run.  All of this fits into a pretty neat little arch that will take at least a couple episodes to really pick up steam and there are plenty of hurdles along the way for her to be distracted by.

If Arya is a Deus Ex Machina then she's one of the most complicated and compelling ones I've ever seen and I'm 100% on board with her doing her worst.
It's not lazy writing inasmuch as it is condensing thousands of pages of books into script form that is limited to 7.5 seasons.  Sacrifices have to be made, or else we would have episodes and episodes of expository Faceless Man dialogue.  This was her first set of kills.  I guarantee she will face consequences in going after Cersei, especially given that all signs point towards her failing in that mission.  As for emotions, I'd believe the Lannister soldier scene put paid to that in the same exact episode. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kBV0uOLx8jM

> To be a dancing master is a special thing, but to be a faceless man ... that is something else entirely. A girl has many names on her lips... Joffrey, Cersei, Tywin Lannister, Ilyn Payne, the Hound. Names to offer up to the Red God. She could offer them all one by one.Oh, that.  It's probably not too much of a stretch to say she figured that they wouldn't have any other reason to kill her unless she was pregnant with Robb's child.  If she weren't pregnant, she probably would have been kept as another hostage.Walder's.  The Freys knew she was pregnant because they knew to stab her in the belly at the RW.Yeah either Arya will be shown that her revenge-killing only perpetuates the cycle, or they will put Arya in situations where her shapeshifting is of no use, AKA against whitewalkers. 

All that being said, I'm looking forward to present-Arya in King's Landing.Agree.  The decency of those Lannister soldiers seemed to catch her off guard.  Change of heart, change of priorities?  What was too convenient? They were all serving girls... There were only men there. The serving girls aren't going to start drinking the wine with the feast guests.

> As for changing faces. Sure, some slight changes in body type/posture are to be expected, but there is no precedent for such a large change. I mean, they're called "faceless men", not shape shifters :/

Sure there is... We saw the man that took Arya into the House of Black and White change his entire appearance.

anyone being built up as this much of a badass is going to get murdered. i don't think Arya lives to the endI really don't think Arya becoming an unstoppable assassin was the point or direction George was taking her character in tbh. It feels too convenient. At least when it comes to Bran(who undergoes similar circumstances), it's hinted that there may be a possible large cost for his power(though that hasn't been confirmed yet in the books). Not to mention, there's the whole point of Arya *naming* Jaqen as her third name, and him balking at the demand.  Isn't the rule that "once a name has been named, it shall be done"?  There wasn't some hidden fine print or exception to the rule.  Jaqen should have killed himself if the God of Death absolutely *needed* a name.

So with that being said, he went and killed a bunch of guards to allow Arya, Gendry, and Hot Pie to escape.  He essentially did what Arya did for him and the two other captives, he took three lives from the God of Death, and added however many were on patrol.  So if there were four deaths, then they're technically even, but there's still the strange part about having Arya un-name Jaqen.  Seems like that shouldn't necessarily be allowed.

Except in Season 6, he said explicitly "either way, a face will be added to the hall".  Arya betrays the faceless men by not executing Lady Crane, and the Waif goes after Arya, killing Lady Crane in the process.  The Waif ends up getting killed, so Arya ends up being able to offer two faces to the hall.  We only end up seeing one, but presumably Jaqen lets her leave because she trades her freedom for the extra face he can add to the wall (Lady Crane's).Right, but that makes her a much less interesting and relevant character. If she's just going to be a pure psychopath, then her character arc is all but finished and is/will be just plain boring. Plus Arbor Gold is super expensive.Perhaps, but she doesn't kill the other Frey wives/servants either. Sure, psychological warfare might be part of the reason, but she could also have left a "The Starks send their regards" or "The North remembers" note pinned to Walder Frey's face.> What makes it unrealistic is that Arya has been there for such a short time, but somehow she learned how Lord Frey acts and how to talk like him.

It is magic... she gets most of that when she takes his face. That's the point of taking faces.IDK, I think she hung (hanged?) around enough to get the gist of Walder Frey's huge general dickiness. I also liked how slowly she broke character but it was too late. 

I get that everyone hates the Freys and I'm not asking for a funeral or for Cersei to be in mourning but WTF. Wonder what happened! Ask questions! Send someone to investigate! Do something other than "oh my ally is dead, I'd better find a new one".I dunno if I'd call it "lazy", I don't think the writers have a lot of say in how long the show can last and I'm sure if they had it their way they'd probably want to stretch it out as long as they possibly can. But they've been given a deadline and I think addressing the Freys was better than just ignoring them after their role in the Red Wedding. I thought it was an alright payoff. For a Faceless Man? Yeah, slaughtering century old houses would be easy. They've been hyped as unstoppable shapeshifting assassins for the whole series, you don't think one of them could impersonate a lord and trick people into drinking poisoned wine? You mean, "heh".  See?  It's not so hard!Well yes, she hung around long enough to get his manner of speaking down. You could even tell in the opening that Walder was just slightly off.   
Also, in the books Arya gets the memories of the faces she wears, could be a similar thing here.Full blown dilusion. He thinks you can copy a person so good after a short time. Now you mention it, I was being silly. Of course they'd notice, every man of them was a Sherlock-level detective.How do the dragons fly? How does Dany survive fire? How was Jon resurrected? Why don't the giants have heart problems? Why doesn't Sam ever lose weight? 

I just wish they'd explain all this stuff to me, in the limited amount of screen time they have, so he STORY would be better!Thanks, corrected my derp error.No; you see that same servant girl pouring wine when Jamie and Bronn are there. She looks at Jamie and Bronn says "you don't even need to do anything, do you?" Thinking the look was a look of attraction, but once you realize it's Arya, it's actually a look of contemplated murder.

The thing is, it's subtle, so a bunch of idiots are too thick to catch it. Yeah. Look I'm going to appreciate seasons 7 and 8. They'll give us some closure and let us know the broad strokes of what GRRM has in mind for the end game. And there were some great scenes tonight. The hound facing the fact that he doomed this family. The scene where Arya accepts guest rights from the Lannister soldiers and humanizes them (apparently I should hate this because of some pop star cameo but I don't). But I'm tired of littlefinger flitting around with no sense of time, and Euron building a fleet in a few months. I want to see what GRRM really has in mind. I hope TWOW is finished this year and that opens up the floodgates and GRRM finishes ADOS in a year or two. Because, no offense, that fucker is old and fat and not the picture of health. I truly want him to be able to tell HIS story in the time he has left.Thank you.  A lot of people are taking the "Faceless Men" point too seriously, in a show about dragons and undead ice zombies.

In Season 2, we see Jaqen H'ghar change faces in front of Arya, and his voice changes.  In Season 5, we see a black man change his face and voice to Jaqen H'ghar.  We also see Arya pull *multiple* faces off his body after he drinks the poison, and then Arya *somehow* goes blind.  In Season 6, we see the Waif impersonate a very old woman, voice, and body type presumably.  We also saw how Melisandre is hundreds of years old, and her "normal" appearance is a glamour.

I nitpick here and there about some things, but people are getting extraordinarily picky about stuff that honestly isn't far out of the realm of possibility for a band of people who assassinate others using **other peoples' faces that they cut off and store in a "hall of faces"**.  I think shapeshifting is completely plausible.You had me at meat maskYeah but I assumed they would at least pick someone with a similar body type.

Does she wear his hands as gloves too? Obviously the explanation is gonna be some kind of glamor magic but it pulled me out of the moment for a second. solid reference> As a superhero fan, that's the kind of lazy and unacceptable thing that we can and should complain about

cry about it all you want, this is not a superhero story.Given that there's no mention of Arya being able to sapeshift in either the books or the show, I think we have to assume that they're just cutting corners with this stuff because they want to have Arya murder some more people.You must absolutely hate GRRM's glamour stuff in the books.

>The bones remained—the rattling ribs, the claws and teeth along his arms and shoulders, the great yellowed collarbone across his shoulders. The broken giant's skull remained a broken giant's skull, yellowed and cracked, grinning its stained and savage grin.
>
>
>But the widow's peak dissolved. The brown mustache, the knobby chin, the sallow yellowed flesh and small dark eyes, all melted. Grey fingers crept through long brown hair. Laugh lines appeared at the corners of his mouth. **All at once he was bigger than before, broader in the chest and shoulders, long-legged and lean, his face clean-shaved and windburnt.**she was standing on something, she stepped down when she was talking to the girl after she took off her faceTBH that's a problem in the books too.To be fair, you probably picked up on that more because you already knew it wasn't Walder. Confirmation bias and all that.I doubt the show will bring back that That's not fucking confirmed. It's  assumed based on seeing a wolf. Could absolutely be a red herring. 

Don't use the word confirmed when it makes no sense.Not to nitpick, but if that's confirmed next EP, that's a spoiler in this thread. I want her to abandon killing cersei so badly but I don't see it happeningthat and the healthy mix of grumpy Lannister troops showing here the Queen isn't long for this world. 

You're definitely correct. Per my edit, I realize I was completely wrong about this.I read about it in [this post](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nsbft/_/dkc0lru?context=1000).False.Honestly, I think that would be really unsatisfying. I feel like Jaimes entire story with Cersei is slowly building to that moment. It's a culmination of his development over the course of the series. For Arya, killing Cersei isn't really anything. She's justifiably hated Cersei since series 1, so there really isn't any journey involved there. Princess is not sex defined in Valyrian. Nothing about brother and sister. Would be weird if they weren't defined. Princess is a title. How are you going to differentiate between brothers and sisters in Valyrian?More jpegShe's not going after cersei, she's going north.Nice memory. I wonder if that was a D&D or GRRM. When she got to THOBAW they were very clear about needing to become no one. As in "fuck your list you aren't Arya Stark anymore and you work for the many faced god now"But when did they found out?If I remember correctly Talisa told only Robb,so how could the Frey's found it out?I have been taking it as: She's been consumed and fueled by hate and revenge since the Ned's death. Goes through 5 seasons of preparing to cross names off her list. Crosses one off in Meryn Trant, completes her training and beelines for the Twins to get rid of the Frey's. Does so, and then meets the Lannister soldiers who she'll (presumably) spare because she has some sort of epiphany of "hey maybe not everyone associated with my enemies are bad people" and decides to go fight for something more worthwhile than revenge.

Or she'll stick Needle through every one of the Lannister soldiers and be a mindless killing machine which would leave me very disappointed.I don't think it's unrealistic for her to be a psychopath though. She's a little girl who is literally a trained killer and has thought about nothing but avenging her family and making right what she sees as wrong. The scene in this first episode where she meets  the Lannister soldiers and sees that they are just regular people is going to change a lot of how she views the world most likely.>Walder Frey's face

Or lack thereofThen man, things are going to get *really* boring if Arya is just some assassin demigod now.I might be wrong, but isn't it more like they can only change only their faces with magic? Its been a long since I read the books.   That really bugged me as well. Its not like Cerswi has so many allies that she can spare one house. Even then you need to investigate. But nope. Alright, so why doesn't it happen all the time then? Is Arya just the first faceless man to ever go rogue an do whatever the hell they want, because that seems unlikely. Even if that is the case having the Faceless Men be practically unstoppable, and Arya akin to a master with only a short time of training, is ridiculous. We have a character that can run around and kill any person they want with zero consequences what so ever.Well for starters, part of the reason this all feels silly is that Arya's training was handled in a serious manner.  Could Jaquen have pulled this off?  Perhaps.  What we saw of Arya's training?  Damn, sure seems easy to turn a child in to a God of Death with a  couple years of on and off training, half of which was scrubbing floors.


This is why you generally don't include unstoppable superheroes in stories.  The grandeur of Westeros doesn't feel like much of a teenage girl has no issue ending centuries old houses.>You could even tell in the opening that Walder was just slightly off.


Yeah, except he wasn't. It was spot on. People trying to say it wasn't a 1:1 Walder are just trying to cover for the show fucking up. Rewatch the scene. The pauses, inflections and even phrasings ("Dornish horse piss") are all 100% Walder.Its really not hard to at least identify someones mannerisms. Its probably not something you notice if you aren't looking for, but a lot of people have crutch words or phrases that make up their conversations. Its really obivious in talk show radio and/or podcasts.

I wish I were talented (read: not lazy) enough to make a gif of Black Walder doing complex calculations with the equations floating all around him. Giants wouldn't necessarily have heart problems just because they are larger than humans, they are a separate species that have evolved to be what they are. A stronger heart, multiple hearts, a more efficient respiratory system, there's all sorts of things that could be true about giants that no one really knows about. Maesters are the only ones with ANY real biology/anatomy knowledge, and most of the don't even believe that giants are real so there probably aren't many books about the anatomy of a giant anyways.

The television series started off relying on the books for a lot of the exposition and world building, but now that they are off-book it is more obvious. You can't just wiki search something because no one except the showrunners have the answers.Dragons have wings. 

Dany survives fire because Targaryens have something in their genetics that makes them able to somewhat be able to control dragons, and apparently occassionally allows for fire immunity. 
More specifically, show-Dany's immunity to fire is simply that, immunity to fire. If she is suddenly immue to earth and wind, the show will have a lot of explaining to do.  (although being immune to cold could be a by product of being immunity to fire)

How Jon was resurrected is  a damn good question. Especially since the White Walkers resurrection powers make wights and Beric seems to think he's not quite all there.  But I'll get back to why this one is differnet in a minute.

Who says giants don't have heart problems? 

Sam seems to have lost some weight to me. But since the humans on the show seem to function similarly to humans in real life. He's got a thyroid condition. Also, Sam remaining fat has no impact on anything and you're just being silly. 

As for why Jon's mysterious resurrection I've already explained why Arya's situation is different. We didn't spend 2 years with Thoros or Melisandre training to raise the dead.  We did spend 2 years with Arya training to be a Faceless Man which were completely wasted with absolutely 0 insight into anything. And again, Jon was brought back and that seems to be that. He isn't superpowered.  It isn't going to continually effect the story. If his character ever needs to die and stay dead, it can be explained by Melsandre NOT doing it. 

Arya's superpowers are a potential problem. Without any apparent limitations on her usage there is literally no reason she can't be a deus ex machina against any human antagonist on the show.  If you can't understand why that's a problem, I'm not sure how to ELY5 but you can probably post a thread there. But is it ever established how long she was there? The point I'm trying to make is that the mimicry is high level for minor exposure.  And if the argument is that she was at the Twins for weeks/months before she killed him then that was even more a teleport than I thought it was which is a different kind of problematic. It's been a decent couple of years, I assumed that Baby Sam was there to show us how long it had been. That wasn't a Baby Sam. That's a Toddler Sam.> I'm tired of littlefinger flitting around with no sense of time

Brothel waypoints

>I hope TWOW is finished this year and that opens up the floodgates and GRRM finishes ADOS in a year or two.

Arya's actual IRL actress being an actual IRL magical shapeshifter is more likely than either of those two things happening. Everyone hopes he finishes the book, but he just said the other day he wasn't intending to write any more TV episodes until it's done. Considering the show is almost over that must mean he's thinking prequel episodes too. That's a long stretch of time he thinks he's going to need to write TWOW, let alone ADOS.Arya may not even have to kill Jaime to wear his face (and thereby valonqar some Cers). In that same "how does she blind" sequence, whose face to we last see on that body? Arya's. She's not dead. I am quite vertain that this type of stuff won't work if she actually tried to touch people. and they had to make it the cold opening? ruined an otherwise great episode Yeah, I'm willing to let it slide but the whole thing was pretty stupid and an egregious stretch of the in-universe rules.

Oh well.I assumed the physical faces were more of a metaphor, and it's a glamour. The Many-Faced God works in mysterious ways.Someone should tell D&D that.Um, it just hasn't happened yet. 

Mel specifically mentions glamouring using someones hair, skin, bones, she thinks about how she could glamour Ser Davos. 

If Mel can do it, the house of black and white can do it. She hasn't completed her training in the books yet has she? There's a lot of variance in story line progression between the two, if you want to be bothered by this one I guess that's your call.Or, they needed to close up a plotline. Arya killing Walder Frey last season made sense within how the story was told, but it also left a few dozen loose ends in the shape of all of the Frey children. By having her poison them all at once, in less than 5 minutes all of this was solved and the story could move on. 

It was probably a similar reason for why they ended the Dorne plotline so rushed last season; they didn't really have the time, nor story, to get to the inevitable end point of Ellaria and the Sand Snakes taking over power in Dorne, and people were done with the Dorne plot, and no matter what they could do would make viewers happy. 

So they decided to just get it over with, first chance the season allows for, leaving time to deal with the main plotlines.Exactly. Which is why it feels so lazy and why its so annoying.  Okay so I guess changing your face in the show engulfs your body in glamor magic.

Which is okay I guess, I think the FM should've had a throw away like establishing that at least. How is any of this an issue?  I hate to bring it up because I know a story needs to have some degree of sense to it, but there are dragons, zombies, reincarnation, and Stannis coming out of Mel's twat as a wraith.  It wouldn't be that difficult to look like a maid tending to the kitchen and slipping in a poison to  the batches of wine that will be served to the people.  Nor, would it be that difficult to sit in a seat at the head of a room in a big giant cloak with no one suspecting anything to pull it off.  On top of it, in the books and in the show the Frey's aren't shown as the smartest of people.How is that a problem, it's magicThey noted in the BTS after the episode that though they had planned otherwise, the reason they decided to use that scene for the cold open was how perfectly David Bradley embodied a slightly "off" Walder Frey.  

It might not be explicit, but there are times when the eyes are a bit too uncertain and he is hesitant after a couple points during the speech as he waits to see his audience's reactions.  That and the quick shift in tone after telling his wife not to drink the wine.  

All together, I feel like Bradley deftly maneuvered the presumably intentionally clunky dialogue to portray to the viewer that Walder's demeanor was *just* convincing enough to fool the rest of the Freys but off enough that if anyone was paying attention they might question him.  It was a perfect performance in my opinion.There *is* a wolf in ep.2's preview. Could just be showing Winter's brutality or something, but we've never had a wild animal attack or encounter in GoT.da fk? this is a shortened season where we have shit loads to get through, there's no time for red herrings like Arya stumbling on wolves or something (lol wth this sub?), she's in the riverlands near where she abandoned Nymeria, and now we're getting a promo of a giant savage wolf for the next ep... 1+1=..?3?[removed]The "next time on" aired as part of the episode. Fits under Main Spoilers. Or she kills them and uses one of their faces to get near Jaime more easily.

Then kills Jaime and uses his face to kill Cersei.

Seems kinda out of character, but if she really wanted to get shit done and knew enough about King's Landing, that would be how to do it.False what? That that's the most likely? Sure it is. With the way prophecies work in the story (the books, at least) there is almost no way that it is one of Cersei's brothers that kills her.And he is the king (queen) slayer.Yep.  

I won't speculate about Jaime's future storyline in the books, but literally the only reason he's being kept around in KL in the show is to eventually kill Cersei.  What other point does he serve?  He's no longer the raging asshole he used to be, he has a thing for Brienne or at least finally gained in her a real friend, and unlike Cersei he still loves Tyrion.  Dad is gone, sister is Queen, he's not even rocking the Kingsguard (Queensguard?) uniform anymore; so what is he supposed to be doing?  Running the Lannister army I guess?  

I predict he'll do dick all in the show until it's time to put a sword through Cersei's back just like he did with Aerys.I don't find this to be a compelling argument. A society that doesn't have a different term for prince and princess could very well not have a different name for brother and sister.

I do agree that Maggy the Frog saying "wrap HIS hands" does indicate the volanqar in this passage is going to be male, but that doesn't prove anything about the grammar and gender assumptions of valyrian.

Volanqar could mean "younger sibling" and just that.Even if they didn't know before the RW, they would have figured it out when they disposed of her body.I mean I'll be honest, I'm speaking more from a book reader's perspective on Arya as a character. Arya falling to a dark place after losing her family and clinging to the one powerful force she's been exposed to that is shown to be able to defeat her enemies (aka Jhaqen ) and going to the House of Black & White is supposed to be the low point of her character, not an exciting build up to an assassin killing spree. What she can do won't be effective against the Others/White Walkers or wights...Face-changing doesn't work against Wights or White Walkers. And that is rightfully beginning to be the focus of the series. There are too many useless loose ends in Westerosi politics, and if a ninja assassin ties them all together so we can focus on the real fight, I am not going to complain too much.No, their physical appearance changes. I think only the hair changing is described in detail, but considering we know Melisandre can glamour a person's entire appearance, I don't see why we would assume Face Changing magic can't, considering that is its entire purpose.>We have a character that can run around and kill any person they want with zero consequences what so ever.

Uh, isn't that exactly what Faceless Men have been described as being able to do since they were first mentioned? They've always been talked about as assassins that can take down any target if you can afford the price. Robert and Littlefinger were certain they could kill Daenerys in the midst of an army of Dothraki. Jaquen Hagar seemed confident in his ability to kill anyone in the world when he offered his services to Arya. 

It's definitely possible there have been other rogue Faceless Men, but how would we even know about them? They're masters at avoiding detection. How would you differentiate between the actions of a rogue FM and any of the other random acts of violence in Westeros? Or even accidents, since FM are said to be able to make their murders look like random chance.  I agree, the show handled Arya's training in a pretty lackluster fashion. But I think the fault lies in Season 6 failing to show how she obtained her Faceless Man powers rather than how she uses them in S7E1. If S6 had done a better job showing her training then her actions in S7 would be a lot more believable, since they are easily within the scope of a Faceless Man's abilities.in the aftershow behind the scenes thing they (D&D) specifically mentioned that David Bradley played it with some subtle hints that he was "not quite Walder Frey" Seriously, this guy is 100+ years old too. Someone this old acting kinda strange? People will play it off as a result of his age, and while watching it I definitely felt he was acting different than the Walder Frey we saw before. I even remarked during the scene how good of an actor David Bradley is because of it. This isn't that unbelievable. Heh. That would be funny.

The guy who played Black Walder is one of those guys who I've seen in a hundred different TV shows, but whose name I can never remember.Lol dude, I was being sarcastic to prove a point. It's fantasy. >absolutely 0 insight into anything

When it became clear what they were preparing Arya for I stopped complaining about this. We aren't supposed to know exactly what she's capable of or how she learned it, the same way no one in Westeros knows exactly what the Faceless Men are capable of or how they learned it.  We know enough to have an idea and be afraid of what she's capable of, but when it comes to her actual "powers" I believe the vagueness, frustration and implausibility is entirely intentional.

Arya's limitation is her humanity, or what's left of it.  

She is seemingly unstoppable now because like Jon on the Battlefield facing down Ramsay she has nothing left to loose and sees only one thing left to live for. In her case that's vengeance. Also like Jon she's gone through her trial by fire and learned her hard lessons, now she must decide what to do with a reality and an apparent fate most people around her cannot even begin to comprehend.

And yet.  The moment she's informed that she has multiple family members consolidating power at her childhood home that is all going to fly out the window.  

If you want an explanation and limitations, the inner turmoil of a ruthless child assassin that only became so in order to avenge a family she believes dead who just found out 3 of them are not only alive but hanging around a fireplace a fortnights' ride away with a massing army might be the most GRRM way of doing it.You saw she's a faceless man now right? There's more detail about this in the books, but they touched on it in the show; faceless men are basically masters of reading faces and body language. And in regards to the teleport, GoT has never really maintained consistency regarding travel times, so if you wanna choose this time to be bothered by it I guess that's your call.It's not established how long she was there but I believe that goes both ways. Since she was able to become Frey, it's safe to assume she had been there for some time. Those subtleties are best left for the books at this point. If they didn't show that touching people has an effect on it, then at this point it just straight up doesn't.How is it a stretch of the "in-universe rules"? We know there is magic. There are dragons and walking skeletons and ice creatures...When you don the face of a person you get some of their memories and personality traits from the magic. It helps make the glamor believable. If the face can impart feelings and traits then I don't think it's too outlandish to impart more physical traits (voice or height). 

Walker was pretty hunched anyway and wore baggy clothing so maybe Arya was standing on a stool or another short little girl.The faces give them the abillity to shapeshift into the specific person. Its magic.  I doubt Arya will ever learn though. She almost certainly pissed the faceless men a lot in Mercy, so I don't think she'll be spending much time learning any new tricks.If they explain it in the books the fair enough, but they certainly didn't explain it in the show at all.That isn't really an excuse. The fact that they needed to break the rules of their own universe to get out of a narrative corner that they wrote themselves into is telling about their awful writing.And really, really out of step with the ethos of the series. I can't believe nobody is mentioning this; we're clearly supposed to be cheering on the insane murder child like she's our fucking sports team. Arya's story is supposed to be sad and twisted, and the whole point of asoiaf is to point out the awfullness of death and killing, certainly not using it as a tool to get the audience clapping and cheering like this is god damn WWE.They do. Jaqen is also the big black priest.Why? The books have never established much in the way of rules on how the shadow babies work for instance. Heck, in 502 Jaqen changed from a black man to a white man, so it is not like it has only affected people's faces.Considering the lengths the George goes to imbibe a sense of believability in the books in the name of being *realistic* ( compared to many other fantasy stories ), it wouldn't be too far fetched to expect that he would spend some time to explain the faceless men magic, whatever that is.

It's magic isn't a *pick and choose* as and where he seems fit to explain away things while trying to be realistic in other aspects ( example dragons - four legged vs two )

Infact he tries to downplay the magic element which is one of the reasons I like ASOIAF. 
Yeah I don't see what the problem is here that people are moaning about. It's magic. Like literally magic. This is a story where people are brought back from the dead and there are dragons and shit. It's fucking magic. There was 1 second of a wolf, and then Arya. I'm not staying there's a storyline that's gonna fake people out, but to toss in a second of a wolf and then Arya is a damn good way to get people who read the books to make sure to tune in. 

Saying it's confirmed when there's literally nothing confirming it is fucking stupid. You can say it's possible. You can say it's likely if you want. But saying it's 'confirmed' is factually *wrong.* 

That's my issue, is that people are confirming things with a few frames as the source. That's not what confirmed means.Friendly reminder, [don't do that](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy)  [removed]Thats annoying. Many people dont watch those on purpose.Gotcha. Didn't see that, was it at the end of the episode?No, with the way prophecies work in the story, there's no way *Tyrion* is the one who kills her. The books obviously frame it so that Tyrion as the valonquar is the "most obvious" assumption.

The only reason it's become so obvious for some that Jaime will do it is because we have had years to think about it. The constant trading of ideas on message boards makes some things feel much more obvious than they are to the typical reader.

The valonquar prophecy would serve no narrative purpose if it were referring to Arya and was *that much* of a misdirect.He's the general of the Lannister armies. Jaime has a lot of work to do fighting Dany. IDK about still loving Tyrion, unless all that "I'll slit his throat" to Bronn was just bluster (that was early in S5, on the boat headed for the Great Dornish Contrivance). He gave a nice foreshadowing that she doesn't understand how weak their position is now.  "We have to surrender the city" "No" and you're dead, gates open.Prince and Princess is a rank. Brother and sister is something in relation to yourself. Whether a prince is male or female doesn't really mean anything. But think about how you speak, how you'd need to clarify male sibling and female siblingIt seems to me they butchered almost everyone so why would they want to examine her body?She was even lowborn, I think the Frey's didn't  really care about her body.Theoretically, solve all the political issues in Westeros with Needle, so that we get to "dragons versus ice zombies epic fantasy battle" as quickly as possible. See, I will.  Making Arya a superhero to wrap up all the political difficulties of the show and turn it in to straightforward LOTR fight the supernatural baddie just sounds really boring to me.That's a big if, and maybe you're right.


But as it stands we only have the content we have, and it all came across like they started out with the "cool, badass Arya moment" and worked backward from there.Eh, enough people in this thread sound like that. I also like stupid world-building stuff, it's the curse of being stuck as a GM in every RPG group I get into. But they established the whole shapeshifty thing in previous seasons, so they didn't real do anything they havn't already done.It's a little dumbed down for TV.  Also, if we're being perfectly honest here, Maisie Williams doesn't have a crazy amount of range (that we've seen).  If we ever get the books, I hope we get all this with a little more depth.

It's not the dumbest way the show has played hard and fast with logic (looking at _you_ Battle of the Bastards) but it's still kinda silly.I think it is definitely trying to show us how twisted and deranged Arya has become, but it's doing it gradually. Her laughing when she found out her aunt had plummeted to her death was chilling, and showed how detached she was getting.Seriously, I don't really need a fucking *explanation* as to why Arya could become Walder Frey, or why Jaqen could be the black priest.  If they had done it in Season 5, or had a scene where Arya took a larger man's face, then fine, but the assumption is there.

There absolutely has to be some form of glamouring that comes with becoming a Faceless Man, otherwise Walder would have looked like a 13 year old girl was just wearing his face.  When the FM use faces, it's not like they're just wearing a bloody mask.  It literally *becomes* their face.  Why is it so hard for people to believe that there's additional magic that allows the user to *become* the person whose face they're wearing?"Dragons are magic, Ser Davos."Eh - it entirely depends on the world in question. If, in the next episode, Arya pulled out a wand and killed someone with it you wouldn't be going 'it's magic bro' would you?

In this specific case I don't think there's an issue because we know the Faceless Men use weird shit to do their job even if the show misses a lot of the finer details. But 'it's magic' is rarely a good explanation. Friendly reminder, [don't do that](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy)  [removed]Write HBO a petition to remove them entirely, then. They're at the end of almost every episode. It just shows what to expect from next week. > The valonquar prophecy would serve no narrative purpose if it were referring to Arya and was that much of a misdirect.

Sure it would, because Cersei probably thinks it is Tyrion. We as readers think it could be Tyrion or Jaime. In reality it is probably going to be different, and just like most of the prophecies, knowledge of the prophecy did not allow for those with that knowledge to see what was coming.I'd say it was somewhat bluster.  He's never been convinced Tyrion killed Joffery.  He knows Tyrion killed pops, but then again, he knows how shitty Tywin treated Tyrion.  

Plus, Jaime has lost everyone that mattered to him besides Cersei and Tyrion.  Kids are all dead.  Dad is dead.  Uncle is dead.  I don't think he really wants to kill his brother.  He especially won't once he sees the monster Cersei is turning herself into.  I mean she just blamed their son for killing himself after she blew up the Sept with hundreds of people in it.  Her going off the evil deep end just validates everything Tyrion has said/done.   If you have one gender only being King, it matters. I don't recall any instances of historical Targs or Valyrians having female rulers before they took the seven kingdoms. You would think that Prince vs princess would matter to themWell that's a nit if I've ever seen one picked.  She was the lowborn wife of *the newly crowned King in the North* and she was definitely [beginning to show](https://winteriscoming.net/wp-content/blogs.dir/385/files/2013/06/749731_GOT3_HS_1017_EP309_DSC32111.jpg).  

It is entirely possible that bit of information made its way into the extensive lore surrounding the Red Wedding in the following years.  It's a very sympathetic story you could easily see peasants beginning to repeat: a beautiful lowborn field nurse won the heart of the gallant young King avenging his father's death on the battlefield.  He betrayed his cause and his oaths for their love and they both died *along with their unborn child* and his own Mother because of it.  

Just as plausible a scenario as the Freys not noticing a visibly pregnant woman, *who was stabbed explicitly in her pregnant belly*, was not pregnant.  If not more so.That doesn't look like where it is going. I don't think she's going to solve the Jon vs. Daenerys conflict, for example.I don't think it'll make the show any more or less boring or interesting. They have an established precedent for this. The red wedding wiped out a much bigger force - several major families. The Sept blew up with itself two massive forces - the faith and the Tyrells. Cercei still has unGregor to kill whoever she wants. Dany has dragons who have an unbroken record of wrecking armies. The White walkers are nigh unstoppable.

Arya, on the other hand has Needle and poisons. She's still a mortal, and can be killed. You didn't see her try to take on a room full of Freys with her sword. Freys are freeloaders, as established in the books, and it's plausible she'd kill them at dinner, not just for the poetic justice, but also because it's the easiest way to get the job done with a single stroke.

That's a far cry from being a superhero. Taking on the Others with obsidian is far harder than taking on Arya with plate armour. When? Arya killed Walder while pretending to be a different girl of similar size and build.> Battle of the Bastards

What was the criticism about the logic re: Battle of the Bastards?Christ, that's some pathetic comprehension. She didn't laugh at her aunt plunging to her death. She laughed because it was like the 3rd time she had almost arrived to somewhere safe only to have it get messed up, and the second time she almost made it to her family to find them dead shortly before she got there. It was one of those "if I don't laugh I'll cry" situations.They also sound perfectly like those people.

If I recall in the books, I believe Arya gets fragments of memories when wearing the face of the ugly girl. Where are all the people asking how the heck that works? That would be far more strange to me.Well no shit, of course I wouldn't. Faceless men have been built up since the start. Friendly reminder, [don't do that](https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/wiki/civilitypolicy)  Ah, I don't watch the behind the scenes stuff that comes on immediately after so I probably miss it, which is good bc I try to avoid the spillovers of "next week on" or "previously on"We as readers are not representative of readers as a whole. *Most* readers are far more likely to merely believe the valonquar is meant to reference Tyrion, as that is how it is framed in the books. You are conflating the popular belief among people who have spent *years* thinking about the story with the interpretation of the average reader.

And Cersei expects the valonquar to be Tyrion, not Jaime. Her knowledge of the prophecy will not save her, as you said. The dramatic irony lies in the fact that she did not consider her other brother, who she has always loved more than anyone (not counting her children) and who was right under her nose the whole time. This irony is lost if the prophecy is referring to Arya, and based upon the technicality of a mistranslation of the Valyrian language.

Jaime as the valonqar may seem obvious to you and me, who spend time reading theories on reddit - but you have to remember that most people don't do that. And GRRM is not writing with people like us in mind.But the language predates the Dance of Dragons.No I don't think they'll actually *do* that, because they're better writers than that.


But the point is that it seems awfully possible in universe, which is why some fans roll their eyes at these scenes that seem designed less with plot in mind, and more with a mix of fan service/setting up a "badass moment" for a fan favorite character.The Red Wedding was also a *huge* event that inspired shock and horror even in many of the Stark's enemies, a massive conspiracy perpetuated by the Freys, the Boltons and Tywin Lannister.  A far cry from one actor deciding she wants to kill off a family in a cold open for fan service.


The issue is that it's just a hot knife through butter of a lot of the most interesting elements of the show.  Dany unstoppable with dragons? Arya can take her out.  All Littlefinger's machinations?  Just one stab away from being nothing.  Mad Cersei in the capital?  Just give Arya a month.


Again, agree to disagree but it just feels like an end to the more subtle, grounded elements of the show to fast track it to dragons vs White Walkers,  which I find a lot less interesting.Season 5, when Jaqen takes the posion and ayra goes blind, the waif then puts on Jaqen's face and her body shapeshifts to jaqen'szigzag, for oneI took it as her laughing at the Hound, who'd trekked all that way to get some silver for Arya, and go figure, that quest was totally bust.First of all, why is this sub so hostile all the time? Take a chill pill, it's a fictional story.  

Secondly, of course she wasn't laughing at her aunt's death, I'm not an idiot. The laughter serves to highlight how traumatic her experience has been and that she has started losing her compassion and innocence. Her inappropriate emotional response serves to highlight a growing disparity between Arya and Arya's emotional state.  

I don't give a damn what has happened to you before that point, laughing at a family members death is not a normal response.Looks like you've messed up coming to this thread then. But Im with u/AbelTNA that the scenes from next episode are logical discussion points in a spoilers main thread. It just means anything thats been publicly aired.> Most readers are far more likely to merely believe the valonquar is meant to reference Tyrion, as that is how it is framed in the books.

Only because it makes sense, Tyrion fantasizes about it to some degree and Cersei thinks it is true. But the more thought that is given, there are hints like Jaime being the younger twin and just the way prophecies work in the books, so maybe Tyrion is a red herring. And it's really Jaime. But more than likely, like with most of the prophecies about the future, it is a completely figurative/metaphorical idea being conveyed and more than likely cannot be taken literally, meaning both Jaime and Tyrion are unlikely.

> You are conflating the popular belief among people who have spent years thinking about the story with the interpretation of the average reader.

I don't think I am, but I'm not sure what you mean. I just meant that the most obvious choices are Tyrion and then Jaime. But as the story advances, Jaime becomes more of a candidate. So, sure, maybe it is him. But then we have the way GRRM writes and the way prophecies work, and we have to consider that we shouldn't take the prophecy literally.

> The dramatic irony lies in the fact that she did not consider her other brother, who she has always loved more than anyone (not counting her children) and who was right under her nose the whole time. This irony is lost if the prophecy is referring to Arya, and based upon the technicality of a mistranslation of the Valyrian language.

No, the dramatic irony is not lost, at least not in the way that you put it. It's only lost if we stop at Jaime and consider nobody else as an option. We have Cersei thinking it is one brother, but the audience learns things and realizes it is probably another brother. And as we learn more, we could even see it ending up not being either brother.

There are a lot of tropes subverted in the books and to subvert something you usually have to employ it. The people expecting Jaime and finding out it is Arya would see their concept of dramatic irony subverted.Thats my point. Valyria seems to be a patriarchal society, that doesn't gender Prince/Princess? Doesn't make sense. The gender for the child of a person worth having heirs is just as important as the gender of one's siblings, if not more important.It is a little rushed, I'll give you that.Jaqen was also the fat black guy too that Arya first met at the house of black and whiteWell a family member you never met makes it a little different.Wow, so you're an authority on grief now too? If you look into the grieving process from an anthropological or psychological perspective, there's no universally appropriate way to respond to death. But hey, keep trying to lead that parade. >scenes from next episode are logical discussion points in a spoilers main thread.

>>Main: All published main series novels 卌, all aired episodes (61), novellas (3), & histories (3)

>>Extended: Everything in the marketplace including book canon, show canon, TWOW sample chapters, **trailers**, games, apps, SSM, relevant notablogs/interviews, and official NEXT season info/images/videos released by HBO

Which one of those two categories does the next episode trailer seem like it fits into? Judging by the sidebar, I think that's debatable. No big deal tho. You are missing the point. Jaime is not an obvious choice, like you are saying he is. It only seems that way to us because we've had years to think about it, and talk about it online. It is not obvious to most people, nor is it meant to be obvious.

And what you are describing is not dramatic irony - it is a plot twist. If Cersei comes to suspect Jaime like she suspects Tyrion, *then* it would be ironic for the valonqar to be somebody else. But Cersei does not suspect Jaime, and we have no reason to believe that she will.We have no information on gender structures in Valyria at all. All we know is that Rhaenyra was pushed by her father as the next queen. Her cousin did not like this and started a civil war which he won. The succession law was then changed to put women after all available men. We also know Dragons have no gender. If the heirarchy of Valyria was based on affinity with dragons it would stand to reason its titles would be genderless like dragons. Maybe not interpersonal familial words which would have evolved even before dragon lords.Honestly no big loss. Because they worked for HBO they had to censor themselves. Limited criticism. Limited theorizing. So it was basically a straight recap show. Hopefully they're able to dig their heels in a little more now that they cut the chord a little. I'm not sure about this season, but I know for a fact last season most episodes of After the Thrones were available the next day.They still do an after-show on The Ringer called Talk the Thrones. It's a very similar setup. [Here's a link](https://twitter.com/ringer/status/886767677385068548) to tonight's show. Check out Binge Mode.  Mallory Rubin and Jason Concepcion (the maester from Watch the Thrones) did one for every episode of the show and said they'll continue doing them for this season and they are awesome.  They're also doing an after show on Twitter with the whole crew.  I think they're putting it up on the Ringer.com.I enjoyed After the Thrones. Looks like I'll be checking this out.>he lays the seed in Cersei's head to kill Jaime

I think Euron was referring to Tyrion when he joked that she should kill her brother... Not Jaime.[deleted]>he lays the seed in Cersei's head to kill Jaime


( ͡° ͜ʖ ͡°)While their egos are undoubtedly similar, I don't think Euron is an idiot. I think he is quite the opposite in fact. My views of him are mostly based off the books though. It's possible that show Euron may never be like how he is in the books. Book Euron and show Euron are completly different tho. I'd be scared to be around BookE, and ShowE to me is ridiculous bumbling idiot who will lose his armada spectacularly by the end of the season, and all because of his cockiness. [deleted]I mean, Pre-Redwedding, Show-Roose was just some dumbass side character always second guessing Rob and doing nothing on his own. I'd be a tad reserved in your assumptions about a character who A. Is supposedly very important and B. we know very little about.  Roose was a "dumbass"? Roose was the only one near Robb that had a clue. He got dumber as the story went on, not the other way around Roose had bad ideas and performed pretty poorly when placed in charge. Up until the Red Wedding, he was a dumbass. Afterwards you realize a lot of that was intentional. What are these "bad ideas" and who are they bad for? Everything he suggested that Robb declined would have initially helped Robb until Roose realized Robb was going to get them all killed, in which he changed to ideas that suited him.

Because the show didn't want to deal with it and/or spend time on it.  If (big if) the book heads in this direction it'd be a safe bet this wouldn't be the case.  Because this episode contained a lot of "shit-unless-suspension-of-disbelief" things. I don't get how a person like GRRM can allow this as trasposition of his clockwork masterpiece:
-leaving Dragonstone ABANDONED (Lannisters).
-Arya slaughters Freys AND reveals her face. No soldiers around, everyone in the room is a Frey (drinks). Nobody screams for help to the guards that are CERTAINLY outside.
-"How can I trust you, shady guys that look like wildlings and claim to be highborn?"
"THE NIGHT KING IS COMING"
"Ok come in"
I was fully expecting them to think that Bran (that looks half dead anyway) was some sort of herald wight after that, like any sane man would have.

This episode had some great scenes, but overall it was shit writing.
Cersei is insane and a bit stupid at this point. I think we shouldn't expect clever decisions coming out of her anymore.I just wish we could have seen some smallfolk reacting to the return of the Targaryens. No matter how they reacted, it would have been very interesting. 


The books describe the smallfolk of Dragonstone as basically worshiping the Targaryens like Gods. We keep questioning how Dany's arrival will be received - I think some reactions from the locals would have been a really cool shot to include. He most likely did. They probably abandoned it upon learning of his defeat, knowing they couldn't really hold it, and would be for no reason as everyone was dead.

As to why enemies didn't come, it's Winter. Winter is a big deal. You don't travel during winter, because you'll probably just die anyway. And at this point, almost every army is spread too thin as it is.In the books he does leave a Garrison behind. Leaving the throne to try and siege Dragonstone, they must do this before sending Paxtor Redwyne on to help defend Highgarden from the looming Iron borne threat. Maybe they left when they saw an armada and 3 dragons on the horizon? Because the show, despite being a great show, has some seriously bad writing, that was masked by the brilliance of the source material. Now as they run out of Martin's books, prepare to see more stupid plot holes like this one because D&D are hacks.I think the most logical explanation is that Stannis left people there, they stuck around after his death (deterring the Lannisters from attacking), and they fled when they saw Dany coming with a big navy and three dragons.Is it because he was really short on men as it was? At least in the show, Davos had to go hire sellswords to flesh out their army. Perhaps they couldn't afford to leave anyone behind. 

As for why nobody was interested in Dragonstone - that's beyond me! The right anwser is he did... in the books. Loras is wounded taking the castle to allow the tyrell fleet to sail south to fight the iron fleet.There are also apparently no peasants living on Dragonstone. Perhaps he was afraid that his resolve would be questioned (by Melisandre specifically) if he didn't gamble all his forces.  If he had left a garrison behind, he probably would have left his wife and daughter there as well.Because they don't have the time or budget to deal with unnecessary battles.bc muh dragons It's abandoned because the lord and his family are dead which means all of the servants and people who ran the day to day of the castle had to find a new House to serve or starve to death. 

It's been empty for a few reasons. The threat of Stannis's fleet was demolished during Blackwater, and Stannis's fleet was also the King's fleet so Cersei had no ship to defend it with. They also were fighting a rebellion by the North who also had no ships. Sending men to defend Dragonstone would be like placing them in the desert to defend a spot no one cares to take. 

Dragonstone only needed a few people to defend it since it was built to withstand sieges. It probably became deserted once word of Stannis's death reach them causing them to leave. 

By the time word reaches her that Dany is coming there is no time to prep dragonstone with supplies for a siege. The  Narrow Sea is a pretty quick trip.  There's also 3 other threats to deal with she needs to prepare defenses for. 

Final reason is she's been watching a dude paint a map on the floor drinking wine and sees it as a good use of her time. 1. If he did leave anyone behind they definitely would've left after finding out he died because then what's the point? They likely would've died too when Dany landed. 

2. Both Stannis and the Lannister's were (are) running out of men and can't spare enough to defend an entire castle. 

3. Cercei knew Dany was leading a huge army her way so either they have to have enough people at Dragonstone to defend it or enough food to wait them out, both of which they don't have. Yea in the book, he left a garrison so I don't know why the show left this out. Maybe because of the all the trouble it took for the Lannisters to take the castle in the books, they didn't want Daenerys to have any trouble reaching Westeros. It's getting easier for her every second. Idk lolI figured that his garrison abandoned him and went home once it was confirmed that he was dead. 


Cersei at the moment probably thinks she needs to defend KL. After all she also thinks she's queen of all 7 kingdoms. because the show sucksThere isn't much in the way of resources there. The island has to be provisioned. It's part of the crownlands and traditionally the seat of the prince in waiting, heir to the throne. I don't think the previous owners were ever in need of farming and gold.

Since targaryens are gone and the new regime really had no use fpr the fortress and dwindling resources on the MAIN land... it might be a helluva fortress... but great walls kinda suck when you don't have enough the manpower and food to keep them alive. It would seem it was abandoned due to outright costs (and fleets of ships are gone so that is another factor for an island fortress.)

Strategically it seems bad to leave it open but when you literally can't man it, you say fuck it.

Though the story leaving it ambiguous and open is dumb. Surprised Cersei didn't Wildfire that shit to the ground



Or better yet, Wildfire ambush. Promise some broke littlefolk their family will be paid gold if they set it off as soon as they see silvery blondeI really don't understand why people are so hung up on Dragonstone being abandoned. If Stannis did leave a crew behind it's completely believable that they bounced as soon as Stannis died. #1 there are no resources on Dragonstone so how would the skeleton crew stay supplied and #2 what is the point of sticking around after he is dead? Either the soldiers would want to go home or would be expecting the Lannisters or someone else to come for them. Of course they would get the fuck out of dodge.  

The Lannisters are spread out enough as it is between the Riverlands, Casterly Rock, and the Red Keep. They may not have the soldiers to spare. It's also possible the conversation about Dragonstone between Jamie and Cersei happened too late to mobilize anything. The show has always played with timelines. 

As for squatters, that argument is a little more believable. Again though, there are no resources, so what's the point of sticking around?An undefended castle makes for a better superhero landing and long walk sequence. Also if you know your enemy is likely to land one area and you can't defend it... then just use some good old TNT or wildfire and blow that strategic place to heck. 

Not that Cersei isn't hoping the Euron will stop their invasion in the sea... but there's no reason to just hand over a castle for free. And the Lannisters certainly aren't above burn and salt tactics. They didn't even lock the door when they left. I have better defenses at my apartment.My guess is there may have been a small garrison who noped out and abandoned the castle when they saw the armada and dragons on the horizon.Because Show logic. Mel killed the Maester in a previous season, right? So thats atleast one reason the place would have been completely deserted. Honest opinion - The show didn't want to spend screen time on a meaningless fight. Stannis would have taken all fighting men to the North anyways - his army was severely damaged at the siege of KL. Though there'd still be a garrison and castellan of sorts left behind. They'd be men too old to travel or too young to be fully trained. Nevertheless, the Dothraki and Unsullied would have eviscerated any resistance, and Dany would have walked up unopposed. The key factor would have been screen time. I'm sure it wasn't an easy decision for the show runners to choose suspension of disbelief over immersion. But that's the route they took. 

Lannisters should have garrissoned it as well, even though their armies are suffering from manpower losses with engagements in the Riverlands, and now another protective force being sent there to find out WTF is happening at the Twins. They also need to be in defensive posture from the Reach and Dorne. Doesn't mean they couldn't spare some household guards to at least guard the keep and send an early warning.

What I was expecting was Euron's men lying in wait, having set up an ambush, rather than sailing en masse to KL for Euron's 5 minute audience with Cercei.Well if I was left to defended it and heard that 3 dragons, a thousand of ships,  dothraki horde, unsullied army, combined Greyjoy, Martell, Tyrell forces are coming I'd channel my inner Gendry and rowed far far away.I think a lot of you are jumping the gun. It's very possible they touch on this next episode as to why it was left abandoned. It's not like they had a lot of time to fit dialogue and explanations near the end.
I think he did leave a garrison then once word of his death got there they found a boat and went far awayHe abandoned it. He was convinced the fight was in the North (and was apparently right) so he just took everything.fewer hype for mannisBecause Ser Poor Writing made the decision to abandon it.Why would he defend Dragonstone? There's nothing there he needs/wants, in the show anyways. His last stand was going to be up North. Everyone that could've fought he brought with him, the ones that couldn't he might've left at Eastwatch, or dropped them off on the mainland.

In his mind he was King of all, not just Dragonstone, so why waste the manpower to hold something he doesn't need/want. In the the books it was different but that's because he knew he needed obsidian. Plus the biggest issue, money.I just thought it was kind of lazy. Daenerys just strolls right in to Dragonstone? Alrighty. Ahem...

https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6iocmu/spoilers_extended_isnt_it_kinda_weird_that/

Sorry, had to do that.

But yeah, it's kinda ridiculous.Why didn't ANYONE move into Dragonstone? You know, that important strategic point from which you either make or defend an attack on King's Landing? 

Fucking ridiculous that it was just abandoned.He probably did leave a castellan behind, but once the whole Baratheon line was dead, there wouldn't really be much sense hanging around their castle waiting to be killed by the Lannisters. Then all hell broke loose in King's Landing, however, and the Lannisters learned that they were facing an invasion so it might not have seemed very wise to send a bunch of soldiers off to see if they could take an empty castle in the Stormlands while surrounded by enemies at home. That would have been a great time for their enemies to strike. Stannis was already defeated and House Baratheon is no longer a threat.He did in books and Lanisters tried to take it back. Blame D&DBecause the show has always been full of illogical instances like this. It's for the masses, and people I watch the show with never ever catch these things that end up bothering me (and you it seems).Possible lore-friendly explanations:

1. Stannis committed everything in going to the North, so there was no point in wasting manpower to hold an effectively abandoned castle. If he did leave a garrison, they might have simply abandoned it after they heard about his death. 

2. The Lannisters were in dissaray after Tywin's death and there really wasn't a point in manning a castle to the east when all the threats were in Westeros. Same goes for all the other factions. 

3. There might have been a Lannister or Baratheon garrison, but they fled once they saw the dragons and Dany's huge navy and army. 

Realistic explanations:

1. There's no point in having a one-sided fight where Dany, her dragons, and her army roll over a under-manned garrison. Not to mention the budget increase. 

2. There's no point in hiring actors just to have them surrender to Dany in some short scene. It would also have messed with the pacing of the episode. 

3. The vast majority of show watchers don't care about Dragonstone. because the show doesn't care about loose ends that aren't extremely important. for instance: remember salladhor saan? 'cuz the writers don't.

how about all those boats (and men on them) that stannis gave jon to go to hardhome? where did they go after dropping him off? hey, you know, a fleet's worth of manpower could really be a morale booster for your army even after you roast your daughter to get brownie points with god. too bad they vanished into the ether.Because it wouldn't be epic, if Khaleesi walked in and somebody tried to put up a fight. It would also imply that any of Satannis' bannermen would fight for him.the show is a pile of idiocy at this point. let it alone. mock it.Because the show hates stannisIn the show Stannis took everything he had at dragonstone when he went north. There is no coming back. In the books he leaves Roland storm and a small garrison to defend the castle.I'm sure he did leave a garrison behind, but once news arrived of his defeat, there would be no reason for them to fight and die for a cause that didn't exist anymore. I'm sure they looted the place and got the hell out months ago. 

The real question is why Cersei didn't have anyone take the fortress while it was vacant. Its position makes it an ideal place from which to defend the Blackwater from any encroaching naval force. Empty Dragonstone seems less egregious than teleporting characters and super-powered Arya, but when you stop to think about it, its worse. 

Because TV is why. I guarantee GRRM wont leave it empty in the book.Because Khaleesi. It's possible there were people holding the castle, but they bolted when they saw a thousand ships and three dragons coming their way.forget stannis. why didn't the lannisters take it over if it was abandoned? it's an insanely valuable strategic position for defending king's landing.Even if he left a garrison, he's been dead for months, so any loyalists will have by now moved on to other coalitions. Dragonstone is also an island with no natural resources and no food, so any paltry garrison would be starving after a few months and have fled for Westeros. 

Dany's force obviously won't stay there long either because of the same limitations.Every man left at Dragonstone is a man not fighting the real war.Right? Not a single farmer, shepherd, or fisherman on the ENTIRE island...?I don't think they want you to like Cersei> They may not have the soldiers to spare. 

Not only that, but they'd need ships to hold Dragonstone, which they don't have.Loras was reportedly wounded taking the castle in a meaningless fight. You never know if fights will be meaningless until they are fought. 

The plot armor is strong with Dany. That must be what we are supposed to believe. An establishing shot of people fleeing the island (or just bending the knee to Dany) would have been nice. In the TV show, yes, which is a very dumb move. In the book, on the other hand, it's more logical. That's why Lannister had to take Dragonstone in a siege.  Dragonstone is an Island in the Crownlands not Stormlands.>Loras remains at Dragonstone, still dying of his wounds.[44] His men search every inch of the castle, but according to Lord Mace Tyrell cannot find any wealth that might have been left behind. Lord Regent Kevan Lannister doubts that Loras' men have been able to search every inch of the ancient castle, raised by the Valyrians with their sorcery, but concludes that, if there had been wealth in the castle, Stannis would have taken it before he left.[45]

If Dany lands at Dragonstone, some Tyrell retainers will probably meet her and she will walk right in anyways. you have the best written response so i will reply to you:

all it could have taken was a simple two line scene from grey worm
GW" the castle s yours my queen"
Dany "Thank you"

boom, no need to mention if there WAS resistance, how much resistance whatever.

the show leads us to believe that a castle of that magnitude, that importance went completely abandoned.  even by squatters.I like the theory that:

1- Stannis did leave a garrison.
2- The garrison left at mid Season 6 when the news of Stannis death arrived.
3- Nobody in King´s Landing bothered to seize it because internal politics.


That´s still leaves the question about why didn´t the Ironborn take it, it would have been IMO more interesting.Literally unwatchable A fleet's kind of useless for assaulting a castle in the middle of the North. Stannis is a twat anyway, never understood why he's got so many stans. They just had to add a scene with Dany ripping down one of Stannis' banners... Those bastards They don't have the ships to defend against a navy in the first place.  The Redwyne fleet has been the Crown's navy up until this point.  Once Cersei went full Mad Queen, she lost her navy to Dany.  Splitting their troops/ships would be a mistake.  Dragonstone holds no strategic value unless you actually have the ships to defend Blackwater bay.

Arya is going super saiyan and blowing up king's landing I'm pretty sure. And littlefinger will be there with the knights of the vale to seize the iron throne.Seems like it. In the name of having one dramatic clip, just leave an entire castle that was entirely functional just months ago entirely empty. Where Stannis Baratheon, war veteran, forgot to leave a few hundred men in a highly defensible position.If memory serves, he did leave it manned and Cersei sent a force led by Ser Loras to storm the castle in what was a successful assault that left Loras badly wounded. [Khaleesi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yca1HbizssY)this.Sure but they should probably explain that in the show then so we aren't confused. Just a shot of random extras running away or surrendering would do.Yeah I'd get the hell out of there, too. No dragons? Sure, could probably hold it if I really wanted. But would I want to try? Would I have the resources to outlast a siege? 

Add dragons, and as soon as I saw them, I would pack up my things and scatter.Thank you. Not everything has to be so complex.Stannis has been dead for a while on the show and has no heir. He was in open rebellion against the crown. It's easy enough to infer that eventually the garrison gave up and went home. Resources on Dragonstone are scarce and a trade embargo would have been SOP. Now the show could have given some sort of explanation or an offhand remark. *Dragonstone was abandoned at the start of winter after we nearly starved Stannis' remaining loyalists. Too bad we didn't have the resources ourselves to hold the castle.* They hopped in their row boats never to be seen again.EVERYONE'S DEAD. You don't move troops over long distances in Winter, because they'll die. And every army at this point seems to be spread too thin as it is. 

And the Lannisters of all houses are expecting to be attacked on all 4 sides any day now. They literally can't afford the men.Is there like food on dragonstone? I thought they relied on sea based trade for everything. The lannister forces are already stretched between the river lands, casterly rock, lannisport, and kings landing. Also they have no ships really. It doesn't seem implausible that they simply couldn't really garrison it. Cercei is no Tywin and doesn't really have s mind for strategy. Jamie kind of just got there. 

Or it's a convenient plot hole. Jaime fears that since they lost the Tyrell's alliance that if they send men away, they risk giving men to Danaerys' "winning side." This was my take on it at least.Correct me if I've mistaken but I though Lannisters did take Dragon Stone at least in the books. Wasn't it Loras Tyrell that was grievously wounded while trying to take it quickly or something?Cersi might have, but she was trapped in the sept, and Tommen was ineffective. Now is the first time the crown could focus its attention outwardsA couple of things. They've been underestimating the strength of Daenerys' force for a long time. Dragonstone is probably meant to be more of a plot device, as a show to Westeros that damn she actually is going to come and try and conquer us all. Aside from that though, the Lannister army is only so big. Like Jaime said, "queen of theee kingdoms, at best." In peacetime armies from every kingdom are used to keep the peace, but what do you do when half of your country is rebelling against you? Spread your forces so thin that they can't mount a proper defense of anything they're holding, or consolidate as best as possible to protect the throne and queen? Of course they had Lannister men in the Riverlands, I'm sure it wouldn't be that hard to garrison Dragonstone, but the island has no resources. That's men, ships, food that Cersei and the Lannisters can't afford to spare, especially in winter. Idk, it worked for me. A lot of the negative views on the episode seem nitpicky to me. They have to move the story along in their own way, and without George helping as much, and no source material, the narrative will more than likely show a bit more D&D. I'm just happy to have my favorite show back on. They did in the books, IIRCAn explanation could be that the Lannisters didn't know it was abandoned. Think of it like this, Stannis leaves a garrison behind that could hold the castle. Stannis is killed. Garrison realizes that they're the last soldiers of a dead army without a leader holding a castle that somebody is gonna want eventually if only for its symbolic value. So they get the hell out of there.

The Lannisters on the other hand know that there's a garrison, but they don't know it's gone now. They also know that taking that castle would be a major pain that would require a major commitment of resources to take, and they assume that a large army is heading there as well. Any army they send could be caught between a stone dragon and a live dragon and effectively get wiped out for no effect.Exactly. Just shitty writing.Jaime predicted Daenerys would land at Dragonstone. Send too few men and you're just sacrificing valuable soldiers; send too many and you lose King's Landing if your prediction was wrong. The Lannisters are surrounded by enemies and Jaime acknowledges that they look like the losing side. They can't spread themselves thin now with an invasion on the way. They pretty much just have the royal army, Lannister soldiers, and (they think) the Freys. Can't just send a chunk of them away to occupy an empty castle.Man thats an excellent point. Jaime even predicted exactly where she'd land. Surely it wouldn't have been too hard to send 100 or so men there quickly to ensure Dany couldn't just take it.Well we know the Crown holds it in the book so assuming that the lack of any resistance to Dany's arrival in the show comes to the books then I'd say it was Tyrell bannermen(the Redwynes and Loras Tyrell seized it if I remember) betraying the crown or perhaps Dragons are just the ultimate white flag raisers.Because Westeros has always been ignorant of the east. They never believe it to be a threat, and are too prideful to garrison a backwater place.Dragonstone has [resources](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Dragonstone). Meager, but it's not completely barren. It sustained Stannis after he assembled his forces for quite some time. Just like the Riverlands instantly capitulated/starved as soon as their leader was dead. > no natural resources

I mean, it does happen to have one *very particular* natural resource that will be useful.This is the most reasonable explanation, it didn't even need to be in this episode if they wanted to keep the whole long, emotional walk of silence. Next episode they could just make offhand mention of it, but Jamie already called it abandoned.That raises the bigger issue... both the Iron Fleet and Dany's armada are now in Blackwater Bay together. That's gonna blow up in Ep 2 for sure.not if its possible to sail up riversThe fleet itself is useless, but it takes men to crew those ships. They can fight. Stannis is the rightful heir to the throne, and I will never turn my back on Stannis!  

For real though, he put up with so much shit because it was the right thing to do, and when it was finally time for people to stick up for him, they left him behind. Killing his brother was a dick move, but other than that, Stannis forever!What was that banner hanging onto. Dany just pulls it like a feather and it falls? The smallest thing to complain about, but I couldn't help but laugh at it.i loved that scene, that look after disrespecting him. my weave got snatchedThat´s quite wrong, because the Fort is built to resist naval invasion and need to be invaded by land, rendering it hard to take.

Even if you don´t have naval superiority simply having a nail on the enemy supply lines is enough.

Just look at Malta in WW2.More likely she'll learn about Jon and the North from someone (maybe Melisandre?) and turn that way instead. She's a little overpowered to be sending her the queen's way this early. If she hasn't gone super-saiyan yet from the trauma already endured... it'll have to be a very traumatic event to trigger her transformation. Remember Goku only did after his best friend Krillin was unjustly killed by Frieza. That's right, you guessed it, the new Royal Baker. Hot Pie's death at the hands of Cersei will be the event which finally makes Arya snap. #ProveMeWrong> In the name of having one dramatic clip

That's really all there is to it.

It'd have been far more realistic to have a small force surrender it, or to explain that a scouting party went ahead of Dany and cleared out the last squatters who had come in after Stannis' garrison abandoned the castle after news of his death.

But that'd have ruined the dramatic 5-minute-long-silence scene.  So they went with the dramatic option, logic be damned.Remember, the show told us he was one of the best generals in all of Westeros!Stannis also had his people at Dragonstone mine dragonglass to send to the wall"Badly wounded." Right you are. And I still have my doubts about the veracity of that news.Needs to be updated.I mean... technically [he does](http://images.radiotimes.com/namedimage/The_Game_of_Thrones_showrunners_have_finally_revealed_where_Gendry_is__kind_of_.jpg?quality=85&mode=crop&width=620&height=374&404=tv&url=/uploads/images/original/112309.jpg)... we need a new Shooting Stars meme but with boatsThat's when Gendry started his boat uber business.You are correct, it was the holdouts for Stannis that burned him with oil. They took the castle and found nothing but dragon glass haha Yeah, the show just omitted that I think, which is very frustrating. But it was the Tyrells that took it (or maybe I'm remembering wrong) and Tyrells are with Daenerys in the show. Even then There should have been someone there.I think when Danearys was coming to the island her forces already overrunned it and prepared it for her arrival. Armies do have vanguards you know ;-)Wouldn't the maester there tell them?But Jaimie says that it's abandoned and he's the head of the Lannister army. I bet that it's because they just didn't have enough troops to justify taking it. But there was a small possible Stannis garrison. When Dany came it was after the vanguard already stormed the place so it's possible the garrison was killed off screen before they landedOr you know,tell Euron to make a trap there? some WildFire 2.0 would be smart.If they knew they could have booby trapped Dragonstone with tons of wildfire. I would actually *like* Cersei if she did this. >Send too few men and you're just sacrificing valuable soldiers

You contradict there, a fortress can be manned by few soldier, actually a couple hundreds would be enough.

>send too many and you lose King's Landing if your prediction was wrong. 

And this is an hyperbole, the garrison is not going to die that easily.

>Can't just send a chunk of them away to occupy an empty castle.

You seem to think men are the only factors, actually castles in medieval warfare are way more important.How long would 100 men last against her army and dragons?IIC, it was a Lannister army that took Dragonstone, ferried by the Redwyne fleet and under Loras.Targaryen princes and princesses lived on Dragonstone throughout the entirety of the dynasty and Robert understood its symbolic and strategic importance well enough to give it to Stannis. 

The history of Westeros itself is that of people coming from the east to conquer it. The First Men crossed the Arm to take it from the Children, the Andals sailed across and took it from the First Men, and then the Targaryens came and unified the entire continent for the first time in history. If there's one thing the people of Westeros know of the east, it's that scary people with bloody intentions come from there from time to time. - Poison the resources


I'm going to be thinking of "things Cersei could have done" all week



So far "wildfire under the ships" is my favoriteThe Riverlands is a country not a single castle...Yeah but they're gonna need diamond pickaxes to get any of it.  Shit's gonna take for*ever*.Yeah, a bunch of sailors aren't exactly gonna be doing much hand to hand fighting anywhere... it's not really their thing. 

They'd be as useful as a bunch of farmers.Using black magic birthed from a priestess to murder his brother. Burning his only child at the stake at the mere prospect of completing his duty. Marching into certain defeat because he constantly ignored advisors, instead opting to 'talk' with the priestess, who had been useless since they left the wall.

Apart from that, Stannis forever and ever!   

Edit: Im only on Book 2, but I really enjoyed Stannis' show arc. Ned and Robb both made stupid mistakes too. Robb literally married the wrong person. Stannis put everything into the lord of light as a means to achieve his duty, but the lord of light was only there to lead Melissandre to Jon, she stops seeing 'him' after they leave.Renly was a traitor! Renly also threatened to kill his older brother AND lawful heir. How is that a dickmove?His brother threatened to kill him and his army and forced Stannis' hand. Never forget. It's as if the showrunners didn't already ruin Stannis' plotline enough so they wanted to get one last "fuck you" in even though he's been dead for 2 seasons.Yeah the scene would have been soo much better if she tugged at it and it didn't fall and she just gets frustrated and really pulls and nothing happens and then she orders some unsullied to fetch a ladder. > because the Fort is built to resist naval invasion and need to be invaded by land, rendering it hard to take.

Where did you hear that?  That's never been said elsewhere, to my knowledge.  Besides, Dany's dragons make this a moot point.

>Even if you don´t have naval superiority simply having a nail on the enemy supply lines is enough.

Seriously, think about this.  How would putting 200 men and a handful of ships hamper Dany's supply lines?  The moment that those men try to raid Dany's supply lines they're going to get gobbled up by the Redwyne fleet (who have probably brought sufficient rations on their ships, negating the need for supply lines anyway).

>Just look at Malta in WW2.

Do you honestly think that you can look at modern warfare and compare it to this situation?  Because you can't.  The context and technologies are vastly different.  The soldiers on Dragonstone wouldn't have the ability to raid the naval supply lines.  And again, the Redwyne fleet probably have enough rations to make it from wherever they last stopped in Essos to wherever Dany's wishes to land in Westeros.It's been a few years since I read the book but you're right, I do recall being unsure of the truth of the reports. Little reason for them to lie so wildly (assuming this is the 'to fool Cersei' theory), all it takes is one spy able to get word out that Loras isn't *remotely* that badly injured and Cersei knows they're playing her. If all they wanted was her to think he was out of the way, they could just fake a broken leg that keeps him off fighting for a few months.

Plus Loras goes along with the parallel to Jaime of 'good looking, cocky man eager for glory goes off to fight and comes back ruined' that Jaime was setting up when they met.[last updated version I could find, there's work to be done](https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=KeOIh8QDGhg)RowBeruboat
 #JamPadIt's been a long time since I read that book, but as I recall, Loras was fighting there *for* the Lannisters. So, kind of, but not exactly.I thought he gave the reason when he was talking to Cersei about how dumb she sounded saying they're going to march and kill their enemies. They don't have the food or supply chains to keep a garrison in all the places they NEED to if they're actually going to hold the Seven Kingdoms.Do the Lannisters even have a fleet to get there on the show?  I remember no mention of the Redwynes and their fleet in the show.> I bet that it's because they just didn't have enough troops to justify taking it.

I bet it's because the show is so full of plot holes it might as well be swiss cheese.

Letting Daenerys land on Dragonstone and take over the castle uncontested is basically a death wish. From there she could take Kings Landing really easily. Hide twenty men in the castle though and try to assassinate her and you might end her entire invasion. Instead they sent men to the Riverlands? I love the show but D&D are done making sense.Came here to mention this. Hell, could you imagine the reaction of the fans if Dany/dragonstone got obliterated by an explosion out of literally nowhere, with a cut to Cersei's smiling face just after? That would be a whole 'nother level of "This is Game of Thrones - everybody dies." 

I figured Cersei used most if not all of the reserves of wildfire in S6 though.All of those are reasons why they should have booby-trapped the place.  
  
It would also help explain why the place was abandoned - conceivably the Lannisters could have pulled everyone out of Dragonstone once they were done setting what trap(s) to entice Danny in. 
  
And I mean between Euron and Cersei this is exactly the kind of thing they would do.  
 
 Dragons ... dragons.She doesn't have a couple hundred to spare. The walls are much longer and vulnerable at kings Landing, so she needs every man there. Add in the fact that at dragonstone you'd have to provision the couple hundred soldiers to even live let alone the weapons and work in shifts. Just not feasible.

The second part isn't hyperbole, kings landing isn't the most defensible outside Maegors holdfast which is a teeny part.

I do agree the castles are important and a deep water port so close to KL is very important. However, there's simply no lords, no men, no food, few weapons, and zero ships going on for the Crownlands. Which makes Dragon stone indefensible to the Crown at this point.It's a fortress isolated in the middle of the ocean. If they send a couple hundred men they'll just die of starvation within two or three weeks considering supply lines would be immediately cut off by Dany's fleet.  >a fortress can be manned by few soldier, actually a couple hundreds would be enough.

Dragons

>the garrison is not going to die that easily.

Dragons

>castles in medieval warfare are way more important.

Dragons[deleted]They don't have to land there. So using a large garrison might make them useless if you lose the sea (which at the time of jaimes guessing Euron hadn't shown up). Land in Dorrn gives you a good safe haven, same with the reach. Jaime made the choice he's giving them dragonstone to grab the reach for food. The castle at dragonstone isn't a big factor. It's actually the worst spot to be. Finally if I see three dragons over head as a soldier I go "fuck this shit" 100 men in a fortress like Dragonstone would be the equivalent of 1,000 men on an open field. 

It wouldn't have held but they'd cause damage in an assault and Daenerys wouldn't use her dragons unless she wanted to melt her motherbase first 100 men is understated, but with 1000 men, a castle like that could resist siege or at least be destroyed in a heavy siege. You don't want you opponent gain a 
a solid foothold that is dragon stone.100 men could destroy the port, burn any necessary supplies, ectMore importantly, what would it have done to Dany's psyche to finally land at her birthplace to liberate the oppressed smallfolk only to be met by people who don't want her there?They wouldn't need to last against her army.  Apparently they just went in with 2 unsullied while the rest of their fleet waited on their boats.I think they would significantly delay her. You don't use nukes on a town you want to occupy; she wants "her home" and dragaonfire melts castles. So she would have had to siege it down. From the looks of it, you have to approach the inner keep via a twisty walkway where you will have archers raining volleys on you. She would have lost hundreds if not thousands of men taking that place in an assault, and valuable time if she waits out a siege or attempts to use some other way of entry. 

There is no reason why Stannis would have abandoned the only seat he had at the time completely. A garrison would have been left, on that island and the surrounding islands of men loyal to Stannis. And if they were defeated by Lannisters, Lannisters would garrison it. Did you see that place 100 men might be worth 1000 if they're actually willing to fight. And what's up with nobody knowing how to kill a dragon making dany unbeatable. I'd like to see her dragons take a few Scorpion bolts that's what they used in valyria. 300 spartans then :)Long enough. Had they hid inside the castle dany would have to destroy her ancestral home and would-be base of operations. in fact occupying and defending dragonstone would mess up all of Danys plans, and leave her with a ruined and useless base and home. She would also have lost a lot of good men.

Seems to me that the show is really leaving some plot holes or else the people of westeros have no sense of strategy and tactics at all.One guy with a raven to inform Kings Landing about the arrival would be at least somethingDany's not going to melt her family's home. Bar the gates and occasionally shoot some arrows out windows and she could be held up a bit.  100 men to delay her significantly is a good trade off.100 good manBetter than leaving it undefended. Plus in castles like that a hundred men could defend against an army. Dragons not so much, but to take it without ruining it Dany would be limited in the amount of dragonfire she used.I also don't understand. They had early warning. It would be worth occupying by Lannister troops for no other reason than the man cost to take it from a small defensive garrison as opposed to strolling into open gates. I'm curious how GRRM's vision of Dany's landing goes.There were multiple castles in the Riverlands that continued fighting/resisting sieges. Listing them would be pedantic. 


Also, if you're going to "actually" me, I'm going to "actually" you.


Actually, the Riverlands are a region, not a country. Need to install Tinker's Construct.The Hound is going to dig everything out with Thoros helping him out. You can always pay $5.00 to buy some gems, and then spend the gems to speed up the mining process.Not if they get efficiency enchants. They'd do just as well in that pile of corpses as all the soldiers there did> Edit: Im only on Book 2, but I really enjoyed Stannis' show arc. Ned and Robb both made stupid mistakes too. Robb literally married the wrong person. Stannis put everything into the lord of light as a means to achieve his duty, but the lord of light was only there to lead Melissandre to Jon, she stops seeing 'him' after they leave.

Oh, man, keep reading. The show gets Stannis 100% dead on in parts, and 100% dead wrong in other parts. It's almost hilarious.

As for Robb, pay close attention to the wheres and whens of the various actors and armies in and around the Riverlands, and you'll see just how close a thing the whole campaign was.Oh I totally agree with your point. It's still funny to me to imagine how that banner was holding on.>Where did you hear that? That's never been said elsewhere, to my knowledge. Besides, Dany's dragons make this a moot point.

https://vignette4.wikia.nocookie.net/gameofthrones/images/f/fb/Dragonstone_%28day%29.jpg/revision/latest?cb=20130501013126

You can´t siege that from the sea.

>Seriously, think about this. How would putting 200 men and a handful of ships hamper Dany's supply lines? The moment that those men try to raid Dany's supply lines they're going to get gobbled up by the Redwyne fleet (who have probably brought sufficient rations on their ships, negating the need for supply lines anyway).
Because Dany has no port in the narrow Sea, the nearest being Dorne. It means she has hard time feeding the troops, communicating and so on.

You underestimate logistics, more so for a medieval era-like place.

>Do you honestly think that you can look at modern warfare and compare it to this situation? Because you can't.

Actually logistics are more important there than in WW2, are you saying that not having a naval base is no prob? That Dany can feed 100k people on sea without problem? Let´s be realistic.

>The soldiers on Dragonstone wouldn't have the ability to raid the naval supply lines. 

The simple lack of the fort is damaging the supply lines.

>And again, the Redwyne fleet probably have enough rations to make it from wherever they last stopped in Essos to wherever Dany's wishes to land in Westeros.

Yep, moving food from ship to ship is super easy, is not like having a port would help or anything.
Loras was presumably on horse and the first to storm the castle. How can you be on horse in a crowded place and be the first through the gates? The report on taking Dragonstone is suspicious as hellWasnt he fighting for the crown as a member of the kingsguard?[deleted]The way that the show should have made it work is to give the castle a skeleton garrison that surrendered the castle. Add just a couple of token extras being removed in the background would have closed that plot hole nicely.That would be an all-time plot twist.  All this buildup and Cersei just blows up Dragonstone with wildfire, killing Dany, Tyrion, Varys, her dragons, and all her forces in one fell swoop.  Wow.  I think the idea of throughtly sacking the place is at a good spot to be the best strategical idea along garrisoning the fort.

If the Lannister burned everything in the inside, destroying literally everything not made of stone and everything Stannis left, it would have not costed them any men and made things very hard for Dany, that would be left with a castle empty of anything worth.> they'll just die of starvation within two or three weeks considering supply lines would be immediately cut off by Dany's fleet

Cutting off supply lines is literally the point of every siege ever, yet there are hundreds of examples of sieges lasting years- even decades. Obviously you would give enough food for them to last.

Plus Dragonstone isn't in the middle of the ocean, its literally just outside King's Landing. Euron's fleet would have had to literally sail by it like a day before they got to Kings Landing. If Danny wanted to start her invasion at the capital she would have had no choice but to stop by Dragonstone (unless she wanted to abandon her ships on a shore somewhere and march hundreds of miles). She can't even just sail PAST it, as she would be absolutely destroyed by anyone who came into the bay after her.The Targs lived there for centuries. There are definitely farmers and stuff that have to be living there that supported them and then later Stannis.This doesn't explain why Cersei did not garrison the castle. Sure, the castle could be surrendered after real flesh and blood dragons show up but until then it is not a valid reason why it wasn't manned.  If the answer to every military blunder is the potential of dragons showing up why not just surrender now?Dragons can't melt Dragonstone and they can't go crawling through the castle seeking out hidden soldiers. 20 men or less hidden throughout the castle could have made for an excellent assassination attempt.Dragonstone is made from solid slabs that don't burn from dragonfire. If Dany wanted to breach it by Dragons they could even dieNice comeback, I just explained why not manning the fort is a plot hole but apparently I´m not allowed to do that.Jaime can send half a thousand men or even 200 and the fort would be manned and resist for days at least.

There is really no trade off, you are not trading the Reach for Dragonstone, that´s a false dichotomy.

Simply holding the castle for weeks is a good use of those men and controlling the sea wouldn´t anything because Dragonstone is built against naval invasion and even Dragons would have hard time doing anything.Would dragon fire melt the stone, though? It wasn't built in a traditional manner, but we Valyrian magicScorpions require some engineering knowledge, and outside of Done are essentially non existent in Westeros.One thing to consider:  KL hasn't exactly had stable leadership recently.  Cersei only just bombed all of her enemies and seized power for herself.  She's just now begun to try to stabilize everything around her and start considering all the threats to her rule.  

Also, she's stupid.  She had to ask Jaime to point out the glaringly obvious landing point for Dany's forces.  She didn't plan ahead at all.  Which fits her character, honestly.  She's all about short term scheming and backstabbing and violence to gain/maintain power with no thought at all for the long game.  

So really, it does make sense that there was no plan for Dragonstone whatsoever.  Dude, since season 2 its been stablished that show characters know nothing about tactics or strategy. Or just smash  the place all around, dealing morale damage and as a personal attack.Sounds like riveting television.The gates she can fly over?And maybe pour some boiling oil on any named characters that try climbing a ladder over the walls... It would slow down the story. 100 men would surrender, and you won't get the benefits at all.Only need Sir Twenty GoodmenNot only 100 good men but 100 women and 100 children too.RIP DanyWho's going to defend it? Stannis didn't want it. Cersei doesn't want it. What loyal lord does she have to hold it? With what men and what provisions? I Mena, during normal times, sure. But she now has enemies on all sides with no resources for even Kings Landing and Stannis is no more. Seriously, what was Courtnay Penrose's garrison at Storms End? Or how many does it take to hold the Neck at Moat Cailin? Heck Winterfell would have been alright had Rodrik not went out to engage the Ironborn and he didn't have a ton of men. 100 men and a Maester could at least offer intelligence and force a siege. The fear of dragonfire caused Storm's End to yield against Aegon. There is no way 100 men would choose to stand and fight against dragons. One castle in the history of westeros refused to surrender to dragons, Harrenhall, and no one has refused to do so ever sinceThe castle is already forged in dragonfire, I don't think she'd botherI mean the Greyjoy LITERALLY passed at most 2-3 days sail from Dragonstone, they could have like taken it for Cersei and to harrass enemy ships and supply lines.Kind of different though. The Riverlanders were fighting for their homes, their ancestral seats. Stannis's Baratheon army aren't native to Dragonstone, they were Stormlanders. Why would they hold a castle they don't care for, for a King that's gone, and an army that will never come to reinforce them? /r/clashofclans is leaking I seeBut taking the fort with dragons would be a cakewalk.  You keep acting as though dragons wouldn't be able to attack Dragonstone merely because it was built with dragonfire.  But that isn't the case.  The men inside will still burn, and those who survive will capitulate immediately.  Alright, I was wrong on the details and you were correct on him being on horseback, sorry about that, but correct on happened following. From AFFC (Cersei):

>“The defenders fell back to an inner keep once the curtain wall was taken. Loras led the attack there as well. He was doused with boiling oil.”

That means that Loras, somehow managing to avoid the worst of the first walls, got on horse because some fool never designed the place with a proper gatehouse and made quite an image as he led the charge, and ran straight into oil at the walls of the keep.Edit. Checking the details I was wrong.

Edit

And again, all it takes is *one* person sending a message about the truth for the entire ploy to fall apart. There is *no* reason to report injuries this bad unless Loras actually has them.Didn't Loras have hot oil poured over himself?> How can you be on horse in a crowded place and be the first through the gates?

If you are the leader of said crowd ? Remember Tywin just barging into the throne room in Kings' Landing after the battle of blackwater.I was wondering how long that would take.Why, though? It's not important in the long run, and would have taken up extra minutes so that a few people can focus on some other "plothole". I don't understand this need for constant exposition of things we've already witnessed ("why didn't we see Jon talking to the Northern lords about his murder and resurrection?") or fixating on technicalities like an abandoned island after a long and expensive war. It's Dany's big homecoming - do we really need to see her swing by the agent's and pick up the keys? Just enjoy it for what it is, jfc.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there who surrendered to the battalion of unsullied who landed and secured the island prior to their Queen walking into the castle alone?

Realistically, there's no way Dany would be the first onto the island, especially not without her dragons on the beach with her.What if there was a small garrison there but fled due to a massive fleet and dragons spotted? The Lannisters are stretched too thin as it is to hold it effectively and Stannis loyalists are likely abandoned it. Given the state of the people that would most likely leave a garrison it isn't much of a plot hole if they decided to leave a small number of people who immediately left at the first sign of an approaching army.>Cutting off supply lines is literally the point of every siege ever, yet there are hundreds of examples of sieges lasting years- even decades.

I can see a siege lasting a year against an army but not against a garrison. 

>Obviously you would give enough food for them to last.

How and why? There's no refrigerator or modern food rations in Westeros. Food expires. At most they can give them 2 or 3 weeks supply of foods and then they would have to be resupplied for more food. In addition there is going to be a food shortage due to no more food coming from Highgarden and winter arriving. So why waste resources on a garrison that has the sole purpose of stalling until they're 100% inevitably going to be slaughtered. Attempting to break a siege from a full army and navy just to resupply a garrison seems pointless. 

>If Danny wanted to start her invasion at the capital she would have had no choice but to stop by Dragonstone

It's not like Dany's only choice is to start her invasion through King's Landing. She can invade the Stormlands first or land in Dorne, anchor her ships there, and start by invading the Stormlands. Plus if she was intent on invading King's Landing first, she can still anchor in Dorne, plan, and just go straight for King's Landing.

>She can't even just sail PAST it, as she would be absolutely destroyed by anyone who came into the bay after her.

Dany's fleet would not sail past Euron's fleet. She would have to engage Euron's fleet regardless if she starts her invasion from Dragonstone or anywhere else. The Targs had conquered Westeros. They did not live for centuries under siege. Also, the Onion Knight became famous for smuggling onions into Dragonstone and saved the defenders (Stannis) from starvation. Cersei isn't smart. When the question is "Why didn't cersei do this obvious thing?" the answer is "she's not clever or sane." She really thinks that she can win when surrounded and underpowered, to create a dynasty that will last 1000 years when she has nobody to pass that dynasty to. There was a whole scene about this. Dragons can't melt Dragonstone, but they can burn people.Dany was protected by unsullied. and besides, why would they believe she would enter unprotected. More likely the 20 men would flee. Even if they killed dany, they would in turn be killed by her army. In short they gain nothing from it, and as it has been established, ordinary people cannot be relied upon to obey orders as suicidally as the unsulliedSo it wouldn't be a siege? In that case, what's stopping the unsullied from searching the castle and killing the 20 or so men hidden throughout? 

Ovens don't melt, but the stuff inside of it will if it's heated up enough. Dragonstone is hardly a sealed box either, fire's gonna get in there and heat the place up. Doesn't matter if the solid slabs don't burn, the people manning the garrison will.Cool, so then all she'd have to do is have some of her unsullied sweep up the ashes of what's left of anyone inside after her dragons bombard the unmeltable castle with fire and cook everyone inside like hot dogs in an oven. She won't even have to fix the damages she caused, because there won't be any. 
Never heard of this. Can you explain where that detail came from? It's been known that stone will melt from dragonfire, the best example is HarrenhalA character making a tactical decision that you disagree with is a plot hole now?  If Dany becomes Azor Ahai reborn, is that a plot hole because you wanted someone else to fill that role?  Give me a break and look up what plot hole means.  It's not this.They'll resist for days against conventional seige. 3 dragons again will make all soldiers go "fuck this shit" and I'd trade dragon stone in a heart beat for the reach. Army's March on bullets beans and bandages.  You can't fight a war on 3 fronts effectively. You have to pick and choose. Soldiers aren't unlimited.It was built by human hands. That the valerian's maybe had a backhoe or something to help doesn't matter. The only saving grace would be if it was actually bored inside of the volcano, but since it is described as having "towers" this is not the case. 

I think in the book she will have to fight to take it. I guess your right and nobody learned from there mistakes over the last 300 years. Even if she didn`t think about it somone else surely does.Or cut a few holes/secret passageways in or keep some assassins hidden in the walls to come out and kill Dany when she's asleep or somethingi imagine you ferociously drawing tits and dicks on every dragon of dragonstoneGet over the outer wall, sure. But I don't think the unsulloed would Air Assault into the main courtyard via Dragon Fastrope. That sounds familiar, did I read about it somewhere?/jkThat´s true, personally I would have found a siege of the place cool.So send 1000. Surely they have it.They would barricate themselves, Dragonstone is likely made to resist dragon fire anyway.

Ser.And they would have had the high ground too. I dunno, Dany's got 3 dragons to impregnate the bitchStorm's End had lost it's liege, the armies of the Stormlands, and were being led by a woman. The men of the castle were scared of more than just Rhaenys' dragon.

Harren and his sons didn't plan on hiding in Harrenhal, they were trapped by the betrayal/rebellion of the Riverlords. They were actually quite successful against Aegon until then.

Dragons are not always capable of steamrolling every castle. For instance, during Rhaenys' attack on Hellholt, a lucky shot from a scorpion killed her dragon.

I get what you're saying though castles tend to have a poor track record against dragons. I just want to point out that dragons often need a lot of help and are not an automatic win.> could have like taken it for Cersei

Considering that would have borderline ended the invasion, it would have been a pretty sweet marriage gift. What would Danny do at that point, sail all the way down to Dorne and march her way up?Ah, but that would require Ironborn with a standard number of chromosomes. They won´t burn because you can see how Dragonstone was build, unlike Harrehhal Towers you can´t just use the building against the defenders because Dragonstone is more compact and also goes more underground into the sea instead of having Towers that Dragons can target to increase the temperature inside.

Dragons could potentially even be cought given how it was constructed, allowing siege weapons to defend other parts of the fortress.Oh I didn't read your other comments first, so I don't know what you've written in which order

Don't sweat it, nobody can remember all details every timeMaybe they didn't have enough soldiers so the tactic was to have the gates unmanned and then direct the first wave straight into the oil trap.Loras was shot in the shoulder, thigh and smashed with a mace which broke some ribs, yet he was still on the front of the army to face the oil. Seems kinda improbable for anyone and the report seems fake to glorify Loras as a badass.

Also Aurane brought the report and we know he isn't loyal to Cersei, since he stole her ships, he could have a hidden agendaYeah, that too, I've just reread that chapter. He also got to a Dragonstone room to get healed after the battle, but wouldn't boiling oil immediatelly put him in danger of dying? It would be more logical to bring him back to a ship so a maester can look out for him.But that's a totally different example, people of KL didn't hold Tywin back.

Imagine a Tyrell/Redwyne crowd in front of the gates and a Stannis crowd on the other side. Can you really ride a horse through the breach to the other side as the first soldier through? Loras is not that dumb, he would get thrown off the horse the instant enemy soldiers could grab him. There are other reasons, that it doesn't make senseThe Targs didn't conquer westeros right away. Aegon was born and grew up on dragonstone and had friends in westeros before he started the invasion. I guess it's possible that they got all their supplies from westeros but it's more likely that they had their own source of supplies.

Also Davos smuggled onions into Storms End, not Dragonstone. Stannis was given Dragonstone after the rebellion.I understand. 

I was replying to the excuse of "dragons"  Lol, her three dragons won't be able to burn the castle enough for anyone to feel it. Unless they stay there for weeks only breathing fire on it and even then all that heat can simply disperse faster than they can addCastle at Dragonstone was build from Dragonstone, which is a building material used by the Valyrians in much of their construction. It is harder than steel or diamond. It is believed the Valyrians used magic to work the stone. 


As GRRM said "If you look at how the citadel of Dragonstone was built and how in some of its structures the stone was shaped in some fashion with magic... yes, it's safe to say that there's something of Valyrian magic still present."There is no tactical decision because like I was trying to explain not manning the fort is only a loss.No dragons won´t siege the castle that easily, the soldiers just need to barricate themselves, destroy or block the land route and wait until food supplies run out or until help comes(from the Ironborn for example).

Dragons can try to pull an Harrenhall but Dragonstone is build differently with Valyrian magic and is structurally more prepared to face fire-related damage.

>You can't fight a war on 3 fronts effectively.

So your suggestion is to move the Eastern front from Dragonstone to the Blackwater bay, I mean is not like you removed a front, you merely gave enemy ground.

>Soldiers aren't unlimited.

500 soldiers inside a fort are better than 500 soldier on a battlefield, that´s the point.Was it built by human hands though? Wasn't it implied that they sculpted the stone using magic? I'm sure dragon fire was an occupation hazard of living in a country ruled by dragon ridersWell, it's not like dragons were really on everybody's minds, also we have only one instance of a dragon being killed by a scorpion.Like who? She surrounds herself with incompetent yes-men, outside of maybe Qyburn, who is probably not particularly involved in military strategy. Like who? She surrounds herself with incompetent yes-men, outside of maybe Qyburn, who is probably not particularly involved in military strategy. Maybe if they had 10 episodes in a season they could find some time to put cool things like this into the show...oh well.  Yeah but at this point we've reached plot crunch time, I don't think they can spare a scene. Idk about you but if I was a lowborn Lannister footsoldier sent to hold that castle and i saw an armada and 3 fucking dragons, I would probably just yield immediately. I thought it was the case that the only thing that can destroy dragon magic is dragon magic? In other words the only person in the entire world who could actually bring down the walls would be Dany. 

Mind you in the show with the level of tactical stupid some characters display I wouldn't be surprised if the 50 Lannister men garrisoning ran head long out the front door a la Jon Snow at BoB to meet phalanxing unsullied. That isn't how humans work. People usually don't fight to the death to defend a hopeless cause. Battles like the Alamo exist, but they are rare. If a fortress can't resist an attack properly, defender surrender as soon as the attackers demonstrate the fact.

For one example, see battle of Yorktown, where the British surrendered after losing 140 out of 9000 soldiers. of Housebut are they 3 *good* dragons? Cersei's soldiers just had their king comitt suicide and now serve a woman who blew up the holiest place in their religion. The crownlands Are loyal only because King's landing is effectively held hostage, the rest because they are too weak to fight back. If people were willing to yield the supposedly unconquerable Storm's End, they will definately yield Dragonstone, a castle that has been captured without dragons beforeShe could land on the reach and fight over the Plains, that wouldn´t be the end of the world for her.Dragons can do more than just burn though.  Dany can fly in and open the gates.  You're full of shit and just nitpicking.  There are plenty of things wrong with the show.  This is not one of them.It's the Reach we're talking about, they'd have the men.

My guess is just that the gate was the first to fall, so that's where Loras made his inspirational/reckless charge into the castle*. Unlike in front of the walls, he'd actually have space to charge once he's got a path to the castle grounds.

Plus there's another point that makes me think it really did happen. Setting aside fear of spies blowing the story and also setting aside his parallel to Jaime, if they just wanted to fabricate a story then they'd have no reason to add so many details about his charge. For Cersei to strike at Margaery, they don't need anything about horses, they just need the report saying that Loras is down.

* Yes a leader at the front can be very inspirational and can make the difference in battle, plenty of historical examples. A siege isn't the best time to do it.Humans have taken injuries just as bad and kept fighting in RL and Loras is a young knight in his prime, with the rush of battle.

As for Aurane, he's pretty simple. He's constantly going up in power. If he were loyal to the Tyrells he'd have no reason to book it the moment Cersei was imprisoned.

Plus there's still the problem with Aurane there is with anyone, all Cersei would need was one spy in the Tyrell army and she'd know that the report was faked.That takes more time than getting him to a room to lie down while emergency first aid is done. Maesters can be hurried and dragged more safely than a burned man.Dragonstone had smallfolk, and during the Dance of Dragons they held auditions among the local population to find "dragonseed" to ride dragons. I can't remember them being farmers but there was definitely a fishing industry there, and IIRC even before the Conquest the Lords of Dragonstone had minor houses on the mainland to supply them.Ah, that's right. I got the two mixed up.The person i was replying to was acting like dragons weren't a thing in the world we're talking about, but they are. Harrenhal was impregnable. But then there were dragons. The Eyrie was impregnable. But then there were dragons. Winterfell... never had to deal with it because the Stark king wasn't an idiot and bent the knee when he saw that there were dragons. The smart thing to do would be to garrison Dragonstone. Except there are dragons coming. It's not a "potential of dragons showing up" situation, it's a "dragons are coming" situation. She may not be smart, but she's not exactly stupid enough to just throw away the limited troops she's got left. So after the dragons have cooked the gates for a while, the Unsullied assault the walls as all the guards are hiding from the flames deep inside the castle. I don't see how the dragons would not be a decisive element in that scenario.[It's not exactly an airtight box](https://i.elitestatic.com/content/uploads/2017/07/12181813/Stannis-in-Dragonstone-800x400.jpg), all they would have to do is fly to that "window" and blast fire inside. It's still not heat proof. The castle won't burn, but the men inside it will be forced out by the extreme heat. If they stay they die from the heat, if they flee the castle they die from dragonfire. Castles are not dragonproofManning a useless castle isn't a good decision.  Dragonstone is only useful if you actually have a navy (or dragons) to defend Blackwater bay.  Cersei's only navy was the Redwyne fleet, who abandoned her as soon as she burnt their liege lords with wildfire.  The Lannisters don't have the ability to defend the bay, so their men would be completely stranded and vulnerable on Dragonstone.

If the Lannisters put a couple hundred men on Dragonstone, then what happens?  Dany kills the men and the Lannisters lose valuable soldiers who could have been used to defend Kings Landing, a place that does hold strategic value for the Crown.  

And to top it off, even if you are right and that it's a tactical mistake, then how does that qualify as a plot hole?  Do you even know what a plot hole is?Not really. It's not a harrenhall argument. It's a morale argument. You act like its loyalty to the end, but no army is like that. 500 soldiers in a fort that has no strategic value, it's got a symbolic value, they're better on the land in another fort, Like say in the river lands. You actually do eliminate a front. They have to invade. Which is costly to do and easier to defend. Why Napoleon never invaded England and Why the allies adopted an island hoping campaign in the Pacific. Now dany has to use her forces to defend dragonstone and can't use them on the main land. Sure it said they used magic... I don't think magic exists though in this story, outside of telepathy, although that is my opinion. In the Bible Canaanites boiled kids (the goat kind) inside of their mother's own milk and used this concoction to fertilize the soil. This was magic to get a good harvest. Only... It's not magic at all. But they all believed it was. They believed it so much the Jews had to write down a passage forbidding it which survives to this day as being interpreted to mean "no cheeseburgers". Wait I take it back, cheeseburgers are magic.First of all 2 stormcloud and meraxes and second of all one you start to here that there's a targaryan queen in the east with dragons in a enough stories that it appears to be true you'd think you'd do your research on how to kill them. Also those 2 dragons where just from targaryan rain we don't know how many where killed in valyria by old ghis. Who know? Maybe the ironborn who sailed just pat it? Maybe some wannabe upstart lord who wanted a fancy castle? Maye the dornish? Maybe the Tyrells or some former baratheon supporters? Even a few hundred lannister men could keep the caste for a long time, and Jamie and Cercei definetly have that many men to spare.They could easily have shown a small garrison surrendering the castle when they saw the dragons.. Not directly related to you as your point is valid but they sure seemed to be able to waste with a 5 minute promo of Sam vomiting, rehashing winter coming for the freys, lots of hound dialogue, an Arya speaking with soldiers, Euron doing his best Jack Sparrow impersonation. 

I feel like they could have wasted the time to at least show continuity in logic and having some people there. Even if they just surrender right away when her army arrives. Just seems odd to have no one there.

Not that this is a big deal, but it is an oddity. We should've yielded! I yield! I yield!Why send lowborns? Stannis left Dragonstone years ago, she could have sent Loras like she did in the books.https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Siege_of_Candia

20 year long siege.

Sieges lasted months, more so without having a surprise attack, months would be vital to Cersei.*Ser Twenty of House Goodmen.They're G O O D B O Y E SMiddling. They've survived so farExactly, I think we'll begin to see Lannisters losing support as time goes on. Not before some victories, but people are losing confidence in the Lannister regime. Just look at how quick the Lannister men were to bad mouth Cersei when Arya was with them. 

I was just making the point that dragons don't guarantee victory.If Dany flies in it means she as to be put under enemy fire and that´s not good, more so she´s FAR from being a dragonrider like Aegon was.Although Loras is said to be as hungry for glory as Jaime in his youth, he was scheeming to marry Margaery to Robert, when where weren't any accusations on Cersei's children being bastards. He is a scheemer pretending to be a simple pawn. Then the Tyrells were using Renly to get to power, not the other way around. He is not as dumb as we think

I don't think Aurane is simple, he was using Cersei since the very start, manning the ships with his own young men, instead of old experienced ones, that Pycelle kept suggesting, making fun of Cersei's court and just waiting to get away, when he had a chance. We don't know yet if he's supporting any other cause or just fighting for himself, but it's suspicious that he is sailing around the Stormlands, while the Golden Company is invading.Take another look at that chapter Cersei VIII iirc and think about the report, if it is possible for someone to take Dragonstone the way Aurane described to Cersei and she to Margaery

Also PJ described it nicely [here](https://youtu.be/uZ7fAO2p0YY?t=12m4s). Even if you don't like his tinfoiling, he has some good points thereSo why doesn't she just surrender now? It's almost like he's in denial.So if defenders stay away from such windows dragons can't do anything against them? Maybe if there are smaller breaches they can even shoot at dragons back with the bows/crossbows. Somehow Martells killed a dragon even without dragonstone buildingsHave you seen how big Dragonstone is? No matter how much all three dragons breathe on it they will never be able to bring it fully to such temperature I responded to you elsewhere I think, I´ll repeat briefly on stuff I didn´t touch:

>If the Lannisters put a couple hundred men on Dragonstone, then what happens? Dany kills the men and the Lannisters lose valuable soldiers who could have been used to defend Kings Landing, a place that does hold strategic value for the Crown.

That´s not what happens, what happens is that Cersei gains more time, Dany has no time to breath and loses either more men in assaulting the castle or more time in trying to starve the people out. 500 men are such a small amount they can be used for this purpose, more so when Cersei needs the time to rally allies and armies.

>And to top it off, even if you are right and that it's a tactical mistake, then how does that qualify as a plot hole? Do you even know what a plot hole is?

There:

In fiction, a plot hole, plothole or plot error is a gap or inconsistency in a storyline that goes against the flow of logic established by the story's plot. Such inconsistencies include such things as illogical or impossible events, and statements or events that contradict earlier events in the storyline.

This fits, because it´s inconsistent with what anyone would do, even Cersei.>You act like its loyalty to the end, but no army is like that.

There is no need to loyalty to the end, but you assume that at the first problem the defenders surrender, that´s far from the truth and the many YEARS long sieges in OUR history prove that.

>500 soldiers in a fort that has no strategic value

That´s just false, 500 soldiers can defend against 5 even 10 times an attackign force, more so when Dragonstone literally has a chokepoint that is long hundreds of meters.

>it's got a symbolic value

So the similar Gibraltar or Malta have no military value? I´m sorry dude but what you say makes no sense.

> they're better on the land in another fort, Like say in the river lands

Not really, dragons would actually destroy normal Riverlander forts and those are easier to siege and have LESS value given the sheer amount of them.

>They have to invade. Which is costly to do and easier to defend.

That´s exactly the point, they would need to invade Dragonstone and it would cost many more men and time that Cersei NEEDS to find allies.

>Why Napoleon never invaded England and Why the allies adopted an island hoping campaign in the Pacific.

How exactly does that correlate to this?

> Now dany has to use her forces to defend dragonstone and can't use them on the main land.

What? I mean if Dany didn´t have Dragonstone her supply lines would be MASSIVELY cut, more so with the Ironborn siding with Cersei. Dany would need to invade the mainland in a sloppy fashion without time to prepare a strategy, gather her troops and create a narrative for her.


Dragonstone is a KEY military point, without even considering its logistical, economic, symbolic, historical value and all that other stuff.







What would you call warging then? Or the wights? Or how the children called down the wave upon the neck? I do believe that some what they consider magic in their world really isn't, but that doesn't mean that there isn't any at allThat opening Winter scene  


Like, "ah, so this is where the added minutes went"Hell, for all we know there *was* a small garrison there, and when they saw hundreds of targaryen sails on the horizon with 3 fuckin *dragons* they got the hell out of there as fast as possible.I think Loras was a bit preoccupiedYou are forgetting how terrified the Lannister forces are going to be of Dragons. These creatures are legendary at this point, they haven't been seen in 300 years and all people know are tales of how deadly they are. 

Any small force will immediately capitulate.Is everyone forgetting Daenerys has fuckin *dragons*? You know, those things that turned the most impressive fortress in westeros into a melted ruin?
The defenders at Candia had the resources in man and arms to resist a frontal attack. Leaving 100 men at dragonstone wouldn't allow that to happen.When you're a random soldier they are going to destroy your morale though, which is what you need to hold a siege. The only enemies who would be able to fire upon her would be enemies vulnerable to dragonfire so I don't see how that's a problem.  And you seem to be heavily overestimating these troops' morale.  As soon as she kills one soldier with dragonfire the rest will break and retreat.  

I don't know why you're so dedicated to making this not make sense, but it does.Renly was scheming to get Margaery married to Robert, not Loras. So far we don't have anything to say that Loras was very involved in that plan (and Renly had plenty of opportunities to notice that Cersei's children looked nothing like Robert's bastard Edric).

Additionally all of Loras' interactions with Sansa, Jaime and others don't indicate the same manipulation or careful thought we see from people like Margaery or Olenna.

And yes Aurane got her to let him choose the appointments, that meant that he was in control of the navy. Like I said, he's constantly going up in power (and it seems improbable that Varys would have ever brought a fairly unimportant noble into the biggest conspiracy in decades).It's possible. Once the gate falls, you could ride a horse through there since the castle grounds will have space for the charge. It's dangerous as all hell since you're throwing yourself at the teeth of your enemy's defenses in a situation where they've focused a lot on defense, but that's not the sort of thing to stop a guy like Loras. Stannis or Tywin he isn't.

As for PJ, I remember him once stating in a video that Catelyn hadn't asked if Ashara Dayne was Jon's mother after showing the text that tells us Catelyn did. I don't really go by his videos.> Cersei isn't smart. When the question is "Why didn't cersei do this obvious thing?" the answer is "she's not clever or sane." She really thinks that she can win when surrounded and underpowered, to create a dynasty that will last 1000 years when she has nobody to pass that dynasty to. There was a whole scene about this.

Yeah, with a scorpion bolt, which is basically a giant crossbow bolt. Remember the battle for the wall, when Wun Wun shot that guy with a huge arrow? That's the kind of thing they would need. It's not gonna fit through a smaller breach, like fire will. It's not gonna be a quick load and shoot that only takes one guy. It would take a machine that would require being set up, loaded, and aimed with decent enough accuracy to actually hit one of the three dragons that are flying around and constantly shooting fire at them. If they miss, they're dead. If they hit one dragon, they have two more to deal with while they load, aim, and shoot faster than two dragons can breathe fire. If they spend the whole time hiding from dragon fire, there will be pretty much no resistance for the unsullied and dothraki to encounter when they just walk in and take the place from all the guys staying as far away from any opening to the outside as they can. It's a lost fight no matter how you look at it. Had you seen how big Daenerys's army is?

Target one entrance to Dragonstone with dragons. Soldiers garrisoning that area will retreat to somewhere more inward in the castle. Then breach the area with soldiers. Repeat process all around Dragonstone. Reduce the enemy's area of occupation into a smaller area. Presumably, that area will be the hardest attack and will result in high casualty. Use your army now as a blockade to that reduced area. Now deploy dragons again and cook them from the inside.Castles have windows, doors, privy pipes, places where heat can enter, many pieces not made of stone. The doors and windows are not resistant to dragonflame> That´s not what happens, what happens is that Cersei gains more time, Dany has no time to breath and loses either more men in assaulting the castle or more time in trying to starve the people out. 500 men are such a small amount they can be used for this purpose, more so when Cersei needs the time to rally allies and armies.

Dany's dragons would immediately rout any defending force.  

>This fits, because it´s inconsistent with what anyone would do, even Cersei.

That just plain isn't true.  Dragonstone doesn't hold any strategic value unless you actually have the navy to defend Blackwater bay, which the Lannisters don't.  That token force of 500 men wouldn't slow down Dany.  You're grasping at straws here looking for ways to hate the show.  If you don't like it, don't watch it.  Simple as that.Dude. Gibraltar is not dragonstone. Vastly different geographically and nautically strategic. 

How are you defending against 3 dragons? How do you convince them to hold out? 

Riverland forts are worth more. Food is vital during winter.  

Napoleon invading England is big example at the cost and difficulty of staging an invasion of an England like island with no allies.

If dany didn't have dragonstone she'd have dorne and the reach. Her supply lines aren't cut. Dragonstone isn't bringing lots to the table. You used Gibraltar which isn't the same thing. It's like the isle of man. Malta is great if you don't own Sicily. None of which exist in this world. I'd rather occupy the reach and defend the mountain passes to dorne than dragonstone. Considering those are easy landings not defended by the black water bay. 

Finally if you trap her on dragonstone because she lands her force there you own the sea you really do cut supply lines. She's away from dorne and the river lands. Starving her out becomes much easier. Let them put the noose on. Telepathy for wargs and wights. This is most certianly magical, and it's happening constantly in the story, but it is low-fantasy setting not high-fantasy. 

The Hammer of the Waters is reminiscent of Noah's Ark for three reasons. One, it deals with water, and two, it didn't actually involve magic, and three, it is trying to explain something when you don't have the ability to explain it (or it was lost) -- Noah's ark has likely its roots the catastrophe around the lake that later became the Black Sea when the Bosporus finally gave way. I have no doubt something happened at the Neck, but I do not believe it was actually "magic". 

The First Men supposedly arrived 12k years before present, which is the same number of years ago that we think the land bridge from Asia allowed people over to North America. Then the crossing was lost... like the Bering straight. And Glacier Lake Agassiz being drained raised global sea levels by one meter in a year, creating swamps where there was dry land before. On what ships???unavailable, I'd say Loras had no arc whatsoever150ish years. The last dragons died just after the dance.And would you prefer your enemies to have a molten castle or a powerful stronghold? Did you see Dragonstone? You can´t  invade it by sea, you can´t invade it by land because of the hundred meters long chokepoint.

Hundreds of men could have supplies for months. They are more than well prepared to resist for months.You certainly don't want to end up fighting them, that's for sure. I think we can all agree on that.>Bran fucked up last season and that fuck up is going to fuck everyone in and south of the Wall.

Except Arya who we now know is an unstoppable superhero.Not to be a dick, but, I thought that was fairly obvious. My question is how didn't UnBenjen, saved by the Greenseeing COTF , not know about that part the story? Plot convenience? What?Yea, not that I didn't enjoy seeing David Bradley again, but what the fuck? Where were the guards? You don't pack all of the Freys in the world into one room without guards. 



Buuuuuut (issues aside) I want to know what the faceless men will think of Arya running Around Westeros and using their trade to kill nobles for a personal reason. Like the other guy said, maybe they know but can't alter things. Something like the timeline must be preserved. Maybe they all knew it would happen and are driving Bran towards his destiny.if the lord tells the guards to leave, they leaveI found it pretty amusing and almost infuriating at the Archmaester's attitude towards the Wall and the Others. So because the Wall "has always existed" and because mankind and Westeros has also persisted through various tragedies and conflicts he just naturally assumes they always will continue to do so, nevermind the fact that far greater men than him stood in the face of danger and steered the past towards the present future. 

I don't wan't to get too political in a lighthearted discussion, so I apologize in advance, but he resembled real life vehement climate change deniers who often claim "the Earth will be fine" in all their pseudo-intellectual arrogance. 

Anyway, because of this arrogance and disregard for danger, I really don't think that Archmaester is Marwyn the Mage, or at the very least if he is, then the show decided to really deviate from his normal personality. Like Alleras said, the Mage is not a man to waste time, whereas the coroner in last night's episode wouldn't even let Sam read a book he thought held secrets to save the world. I think the Marwyn character was the one that Sam saw go into the archives, the one the archmaester insultsArchmaester Marwyn had one thing that Archmaester Ebrose hadn't got.  A great, big, bushy beard!Let's also note that Sam stealing the key to the restricted section is the show version of Pate stealing it for the faceless man in the book.If it is a Marwyn - esque character.... we are overlooking the fact that JORAH the EXPLORAH is in the quarantine cell with greyscale. Smoldering volcano arm confirmed?>(they have plumbing in the citadel?)

My guess is it was an Archimedes' screw stuck in a barrelMan, I didn't realize that was Jim Broadbent. Normally I'm better at recognizing people than that (I got Ed Sheeran!) and the guy looked familiar. I knew I knew him from somewhere, but for some reason I didn't recognize Jim Broadbent.My question is why wasn't he wearing a chain? While Sam and the Maester were talking about the Others, they were weighing a human heart. That's gotta be intentional or something.I saw in the credits Broadbent got a special mention guest spot... perhaps implying it was a one time thing.Oh boy. I can't wait to be disappointed some moreHBO says it's Archmaester Ebrose.

>Wearing an acolyte’s robes, Samwell Tarly trudges through his chores in the Citadel infirmary, scrub room, privy, mess hall, and library, where he eyes a gated section of restricted books. Later, while assisting **Archmaester Ebrose** with an autopsy, Sam requests access to the restricted section, hoping to find information to use against the White Walkers. Unlike other maesters, Ebrose believes Sam is telling the truth about what he's seen, but he denies Sam’s request. With no other option, Sam steals a set of keys from a sleeping maester and slips several of the restricted books and scrolls into his bag.

http://www.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/episodes/7/61-61-dragonstone/synopsis.htmlI've seen a gif of the map seeming to show a planetary orbit in the book lying open behind the locked gates of the library. Did you all catch that? Very intriguing, I wish I'd snagged it to share lol.

edit: someone has posted it in the newest episode discussion thread. Was Marwyn's speech about the role of the maesters as memory based on something in the books? It was the first bit of dialogue in the episode that perked me up, and seemed vaguely familiar. I really hope we do see more of him.Why is no one talking about Jorah in the cell?I know anyone can update IMDB and it's not always accurate, but fwiw he's listed as Archmaester Marwyn http://www.imdb.com/title/tt5654088/fullcredits?ref_=tt_ov_st_sm
come on, it's Marwyn. you think D&D gonna waste Slughorn on a one off?I don't think we have met show Marwyn just yet. While acknowledging that Sam could be right, the archmaester that Sam was helping seemed to downplay the importance of the white walkers and Long Night. However, it's quite possible that he helps introduce Sam to Marwyn or becomes responsible for Marwyn finding out who Sam is and what he knows. He is Marwyn the Mage in the same way brother Ray was septon Meribald. I can assure you he won't be relevant in the story even for a tiny bit.Seemed like a forced commentary on Trump to me. D&D's way of saying to stop with all the hysteria and in particular a criticism of academics and journalists response to his win. Made me wish Nick Frost had been cast as Sam.Any luck catching them swans?Yarp.

Immediately thought about that. What was the faceless man trying to acquire, a book right? "Blood and Fire" I think it was called, well supposedly anyway.I'm hoping that is how his healing works. Visually, it would be stunning and add some much needed coolness to Jorah. Me either and I just watched half blood prince the other day Probably because what he was doing would be difficult with a chain.No idea, Sam called him arch maester though. It made me think of how you get judged in the Egyptian afterlife.I thought that was the liver["Ebrose is the archmaester at the Citadel who tests novices seeking their link in the arts of healing."](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Ebrose)

So he is the archmaester of healing and Sam is his apprentice. Sam seems to be working in the sick wards as well as it seems.

Sam gets into contact with Jorah and with the help of the Archmaester they will cure him of his greyscale. Right, but is Ebrose taking on Marwyn's role in the books, or is he just a totally different character? Hm...[Here, clipped it for you.](https://i.imgur.com/TEeuV7g.jpg)I saw that. I felt like the whole dragon glass on dragonstone was obvious and something we already knew. I was hoping Sam's revelation would have to do with the seasons or something.or that we were shown 3 wights that are Giants....3! Not much to talk about, is there? Jorah is in quarantine due to grayscale, meaning he's trying to follow Dany's order. What else is there?Not only was he friendzoned, but fanzoned as well. IMDB says Ebrose nowHBO says it's Archmaester Ebrose

http://www.hbo.com/game-of-thrones/episodes/7/61-61-dragonstone/synopsis.html
I saw that too, I didn't want to confirm his identity based on IMDB. Was Marwyn not the hand that grabbed Sam and asked about Danaerys Stormborn landing in Westeros? Who else at the Citadel would be that mysterious/concerned with Dany?Well, I dearly hoped Ian McShane was going to be more than a one off...lol I thought the exact same thing when I was watching. I agree, do not think they would get Jim Broadbent for a one off or minor character especially with the shortened episode amount. I thought forsure the arm that grabbed Sam asking about Danaerys Stormborn was Marwyn. Who else in the citadel would care about her arrival so much?Oh that'd be a good way in too. This Archmaester is the bouncer to the secret Marwyn club. But Meribald actually isn't relevant in the story for any plot reasons. He is important for thematic reasons, yes. Maybe! I'm just excited to see if it ends up being somewhere close to Marwyn. I saw the corpse opening, and the disconnect between how readily he believed Sam and how little he believes histories. And his off-handed knowledge of the Long Night despite appearing to be a healer, and thought I may have seen the Mastiff. 

[Spoilers Production](/s "Broadbent has said he'll be on the show for 5 episodes this season and they were major scenes. So, I'm hopeful especially with the early connections with Qyburn")I disagree, he's gonna save Sam's ever less fat ass, when he gets caught with them "borrowed restricted books". MaybeMar will take the fall.Solid reference.He's going to feed his family sword to Jorah. that sounds neat.They weighed a liver and a heart. I thought the guy who grabs Sam and asks about Danaerys Stormborn was Marywyn. Idk what the relevance of that scene is otherwise.Yeah, the mystery book would've been way way way more fun for us to see Sam engage with lol. I mean, can you image learning something about Planetos' wacky seasons in such a casual fashion in the show lol? Exploding heads;)3 Wights be Giants - good name for a band I don't think they would reveal Jorah's presence there if he wasn't in some way relevant to the rest of Sam's time in Oldtown. I'm guessing Sam will at some point return to Jorah's cell to ask him about Daenerys and or dragons since Sam is there to find a way to defeat the White Walkers. Probably meant to serve a similar purpose, but perhaps George asked them to change the name like he asked the to change Vargo Hoat, because they were doing something different/something lesser than what he plans for Marwyn. Of course they want us to think that

Remember when they mentioned an Other being Night's king to immediately change their synopsis? They are trolling us big timeProbably smart since people would ignore your entire theory and complain about you referencing IMDB...I just want more Marwyn!  That was Jorahbut it was announced way ahead of time that McShane was only doing GOT *because* it was a one-off role. He didn't want to commit to a season.Cough cough Ian McShane Alexander SiddigThat was Jorah. The arm was covered in greyscale, and we saw Ian Glen's profile in silhouette.Like, he invites all the young acolytes to his private study for dinner and discussion of high society?Either that or he reports Sam to higher-ups in the Citadel for wrongdoing, which would put the spotlight on him within the Citadel. In return, this would then catch the attention of someone like Marwyn. We don't know yet, with two books remaining, if ever they be published.He's not going to get on a ship to visit Dany in Meereen, so it's going to be a composite character. Remember Marwyn is already on his way out of Oldtown at the end of ADWD, while Jaqen just took over as Pate and stole the vault key, and Sam hasn't done anything yet.exactlyThat was Jorah Mormont asking about DanyThat was JorahThat was Jorah lolThat was jorah with greyscaleWhen watching on Amazon you can pause the video and information about the characters in the scene pops up. And according to Amazon that is indeed Archmaester Marwyn.He probably only worked for 1-2 days, maybe a week. They aren't going to spend months filming his appearances in one place.Was it announced, or are you just considering him spoiling it the announcement? I can't remember.Siddig was on for 5 episodes. 

Septon Meribald/Ray is inherently a much smaller role than Marwyn. Especially if it is Marwyn, a character hinted about existing since the first book. On the other hand, they could do him like Jonathan Pryce and let him have quite a large role. I am still salty about McShane being given such a non-McShane part and only lasting an episode.

And his name in the opening credits. Hmm sounds familiar 

https://vignette1.wikia.nocookie.net/harrypotter/images/4/44/Slug_Club2.png/revision/latest?cb=20120218211947Good point. I don't get the feeling that he will be involved going forward very much, but certainly could be wrong.And it was his voiceAnd my axe!I don't agree with your theory (I am on the "Bran's fault" train), but I will say that Littlefinger has by far been my favorite character since I started watching the show when season 3 was wrapping up. I've known all along that he is doomed and won't "win" the game of thrones -- and I'm okay with that. 

While he's an inexpensive character in the books (no POVs to burn up), I think the fact that he has remained a plot-driving character for 7 out of 8 seasons of the show so far implies that his demise will not be a simple matter of Jon and Sansa grow tired of his nonsense and he goes into exile as a lonely hermit. 

I don't think the dagger will be a major part of his end -- which might be a bit bold considering the potential foreshadowing we saw tonight -- but it may be a factor. What we do see is a converging of all the Starks and the forces loyal to them, and in addition, an approaching witness to Baelish's betrayel of Ned Stark (the Hound), who has a sudden interest in righteousness. 

Sansa thinks she know what Baelish wants and how far he will go to obtain it, but I think she's still the same old naive Sansa we've always known. People always say, "she's going to be a badass this season, a real power-player," but what always happens? She gets gamed.

Only once his betrayal of Ned Stark is revealed, I think, will all the pieces fall into place for Littlefinger's demise. He betrayed Ned Stark (which will be revealed by the Hound, heading towards Winterfell), he probably tried to have Bran killed to start a feud which works whether he dies or not (Bran and Sam will likely both be at Winterfell at some point soon), he "unknowingly" pawned Sansa off to the madman who raped her and killed Rickon, he participated in the Lannister's court while they quelled the King in the North rebellion, and now he is trying to turn Sansa against Jon. Hell, he even killed the Stark's aunt and murdered the former ruler of the state whose military he is now leading around doing his bidding. They all know that he's shifty/shady, but the extent of his machinations will finally be revealed at once when all these plotlines converge in the north. 

Littlefinger's end will therefore not be one last act of defiance, but the worst ever case of, "hey, don't I know you from somewhere" that ever occurred. He did "good deeds" along the way to try and cover his tracks (e.g., "helping" Catelyn, advising Ned, rescuing Sansa, saving the battle of Winterfell, etc) but once they realize that all these problems were his intentional doing in the first place, he's screwed.

Remember: Littlefinger is all political. "I'm not going to fight them, I'm going to fuck them." He won't be negotiating with White Walkers, and he won't be bringing down the wall. He works by subterfuge. But very soon, all of his friends will be gone and he will be in the midst of all of his previously oblivious enemies. 

His death will be one of gratuitous fan-service, no doubt. Something poetic and performed by the Starks. All of the people who love to hate the character will rejoice on Twitter that day. 

The wall will come down, but Littlefinger won't cause it, and it won't be his last ditch effort. I don't think he'll ever have a chance at a last ditch. He'll come crashing down falling off the ladder of chaos as all of his plans fail at once and even he cannot conceal his deceit. He never learned his lesson that Cersei tried to demonstrate: what real power is. Littlefinger thinks he is climbing the ladder of power, but everyone is looking for a way to throw him off it.

Anyway, I'm just a singer in a Mexican band, so, take that for what it's worth.I don't think so.

Bran's marked by the Night's King and he's been allowed passage into/through the Wall.

Bran's gonna bring down the Wall.Nah, I doubt it. Not that I'd put it past him, if he had the agency to pull that shit off, he'd do it in a heartbeat, but I don't see how he could achieve that.

I think LF's fate is sealed. The VS catspaw dagger, shown in explicit detail in that stolen book of Sam's, is with LF in WF, amongst his personal shit. It will be found, and will be both the literal and figurative instrument of his demise."I'm not going to fight them, I'm going to fuck them."

Wouldn't unleashing an undead army be the ultimate fucking!?

Sure I could see him getting his comeuppance in a normal way happening. But I could also see (and think it would be way more interesting) someone coming from complete obscurity rising up and being the most mass murdering asshole the Realm has ever seen. 

We know that his ultimate goal is the Iron Throne. And not only will trouble in the North be standing in his way, but how the HELL is he gonna get on the throne now that Daenerys and her dragons have come to Westeros?

Littlefinger is all about getting on even foot. How do you get on even footing with three dragons? Zombie army.Unless you've read spoilers, I don't think this is gonna happen. 
If you have read spoilers, please don't tell me.

I don't think this is gonna happen because it's just stupid. After all that he's learned, Bran will bring down the wall just by going through it? You mean no one told him that was a possibility? Not even Benjen? It even seems like something he would realize on his own.

I've always thought this was a stupid theory and I really hope it doesn't happen. If the Horn of Joramun pops up in the show, and it's abilities are real then thats one way.

I just think for the person who's literally the catalyst for the entire show to go out with either his throat cut or his head chopped off just isn't enough. His importance to the narrative has been ticking up and up ever since the show started. He needs to go out with a bang. Of course I thought of that exact counterpoint while I typed that out -- you're right, on a *metaphorical* level, yes, that would be the "ultimate fucking". 

But as much as I'd love for Littlefinger to be king of the ashes, ruling over an undead cult for the rest of his years, it just isn't going to happen. 

What you said -- "how do you get on an even footing with three dragons?" -- is exactly why he *won't* end up on the Iron Throne, not why he will. Petyr doesn't have true power. His form of "power" is only relevant while politics are relevant. It's sort of like money in the real world, which coincidentally is the root of much of Baelish's power in the first place: when all goes to hell in a hand basket, women will hawk their diamond earring for a potato. In the same sense, political power means nothing when there is no meaningful government. The "chaos" upon which Petyr thrives still requires some semblance of background order, because it relies on powerful people to use as rungs in his ladder.

Now getting away from the philosophical to the logical. Don't get me wrong, I totally understand where you're coming from with your theory. But in order for all of that to work out, so many things, substantial things, have to suddenly change dramatically. Right now the wights are like giants in Skyrim: rural peasants send them cows as sacrifices so that they'll be left alone. But there is no true reasoning with them; there's no common language. There's only appeasing them, and who knows how far that goes? We've not seen them have any sort of human language capabilities, nor motivation to negotiate, nor desire to interact with humans beyond zombie-like slaughtering. Yes, in the days of thousands of years past, there were some sort of supposed peace-dealings, but those involved forest children and first men, not a brothel owner from Kings Landing (yes he's from the Fingers, but you get my point). 

Then you have to answer the question of, what's the point of Bran's mark, if not for the purpose of allowing the horde to pass the magic of the wall? It's a major plot tool, which may be cheap, but in the end, much simpler than the alternatives. And it has a moralistic quality as well: it gives Bran serious consequences for disobeying direct orders from the greenseer. That old adage from Spiderman: "with great power comes great responsibility". Bran screwed up, got his "master" killed, and on top of that, will cause the wall which stood for thousands of years to be rendered little more than an obstacle course for an undead army marching toward the heart of civilization. 

I love Littlefinger, but his false "power" is going to become small beans very quickly. He had a chance to learn not to become too big for his britches but he refused to, out of pride and a drive for his version of power. How could anyone know it's a possibility if it's never happened to anyone before? The Wall's never come down before, obviously.

Before Bran was marked, they were safe in their cave. Once Bran was marked, the White Walkers were able to get inside, leading to Hodor's death.

It's easy to put two and two together here, although I don't think Bran and Meera have.

He's *obviously* not going to have done it on purpose and it's obvious no one knows it's even a possibility in the first place.As far as Littlefinger's demise, lets agree to disagree.

To reasoning with the WW, the fact is we know jack shit about them. Which means that any and all possibilities can and should be considered. I use Craster as an example that they can somehow be communicated with. Craster was a meager old wildling, not a child of the forest. Though he does have First Men blood in him, Littlefinger likely does as well given his birthplace and physical characteristics. What it is Littlefinger has to offer, I do not know. Maybe him being able to bring down the Wall will be his offering, as they are dead and cannot cross. 

Bran's mark could serve many purposes, none of which being what brings down the wall. It could serve as a psychic link between he and the Night's King much like Harry Potter's scar was between he and Voldemort. Even if it never comes up in the story again, it served a purpose by being what allowed the NK to enter the cave, kill the original three eyed raven, and force Bran to grow up fast. 

I just don't believe that what brings down the Wall will be something so simple that he should've fucking thought of it immediately as he crossed through the wall. He's been training with the Three-Eyed Raven so he knows a bunch of shit. Benjen should know. Bran can see then freaking future at this point. Somebody should fucking know that Bran's mark might bring down the Wall. Which is why it won't happen. It would be so dumb. 

Also in this first episode, Bran crossed through the wall with very little fanfare. If that mark would be the thing that brings it down, they would've clued in on it somehow. They did not. That makes me almost certain that the mark will not bring down the wall. 
He's obviously going to have to go through the Wall which is why I think it would be such a dumb way for it to come down. 

Sure in the logic the story has given us, it makes sense that the Wall could come down this way. But story wise? It just makes everyone involved look stupid.

If Bran just going through the Wall could bring it down, why would Benjen have brought him there? He knew all about the Wall and it's magic keeping the dead out. He knows Bran was touched by the Night King. He knows that's how the cave got infiltrated. Yet he's just gonna drop Bran off right at the Wall and say "Eh, what's the worst that can happen."

If Bran would just stay north of the wall or even kill himself then he'd be giving the rest of humanity a better chance of survival. 

Also, we don't know if the magic protecting the cave was the same kind of magic keeping the Walkers away from the Wall. We don't know shit about magic in general. The spells on the Wall could be stronger.

The fact that it seems so obvious means nothing. This show is built on subverting expectations.  I'm not saying it's impossible that the Wall comes down this way, I just don't think people should be so sure. And I'd be highly disappointed if it did.I mean, fair enough. I fail to see how this would be stupid but Littlefinger making a "deal" (seriously?) with the White Walkers isn't.Again, we've seen Craster make a deal with them. We saw one of them spare Sam. So they have intelligence and the idea of a human negotiating with them has precedence. I don't know what Littlefinger could possibly have to offer. Maybe his bringing down the Wall will be his side of the bargain. Again, that's fair, but what's Petyr gonna do? Ride a horse right up to the Night King?

Baelish has no *inkling* of what the Others are truly capable of. I can see no circumstance in which he tries to strike *any* sort of deal with them. I can't even imagine a scenario in which he's thinking about even *one* way in which he might be able to pull something that asinine off.

I absolutely agree that he's gonna have a huge sendoff, but this isn't gonna be it.I admit this is wild speculation. I will not be surprised if I'm as wrong as an MSNBC commentator on Election Night. But those quotes that I gave ring so much to me.

"He would burn the kingdom to the ground if he could rule the ashes" Varys says about him.
"Chaos is not a pit, it's a ladder" Littlefinger says himself.

This story is HUGE on foreshadowing. Especially in the dialogue. It's that quote from Varys that makes the foundation of this theory. 

You're right. Baelish has no idea of what the Others are capable of. But he wants nothing but power. He cares for no one but himself. We've seen more and more the limits that those obsessed with power are willing to push. Cersei just mass murdered at least a hundred people. If she could, she would murder even more and not stop until there was no one left but the people loyal to her. Baelish would be doing nothing but unleashing the deadliest weapon in all of history onto the entirety of Westeros. He would create ultimate chaos. He will burn down all of civilization just so he can rule the ashes. 

Around the end of the season. I think S6's soundtrack was released a week or two before the finale, don't recall specifics of the other seasons. 

I'm rather confident future generations will rank Ramin Djawadi up there with Grieg, Schubert and other great "incidental" composers. Everything he does is fantastic, including knowing when to NOT have music.If I'm remembering correctly, it's usually released on the Friday before the season finale. So in this case August 25thIdk I think the theme music has become way too familiar, in particular the Stark and Lannister themes. When I hear them in the background it distracts from the scene because they're too familiar now. Every dramatic scene with Starks has pretty much the same music, same with Lannisters, and all the theme music to accompany the Lannisters/Starks/Sam/Dany this episode felt really token. I was actually more surprised and impressed that they didn't use the standard spooky R'hllor music when Sandor was looking into the flames.Those were meant to be familar though. Also they often just repeat music used before.Theme music should be used to enhance and cement defining moments in someone's story. If Jon and Sansa can't have a conversation without that wistful leitmotif, it's cringe-inducing. The Stark theme is sad, the Lannister theme is intimidating, the Lord of Light theme is disturbing. If these characters are multi-faceted, they can't be defined by one emotion that looms over everything they do. Daenerys suffers less by this because she has a handful of themes, but with some others it just gets painful.I'm pretty convinced that the Valyrians, or their ancestors, were on Westeros prior to the First Men. No, the Valyrians had [Dragonstone](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Dragonstone_(material\)). The foundations of the Hightower & the Five Forts are all-but-confirmed to be [Geo-Dawnian](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Black_stone#Fused_black_stone) (i.e. proto-Valyrians with proto-Dragonstone) in origin. The stones that Qartheen pirate Xandarro Xhore found on Ax Isle to make his fort there, are presumably old Valyrian Dragonstone or Geo-Dawnian fused black stone. Additionally, with how many colonies the Valyrians tried to establish there, it may be that there are Dragonstone ruins on mainland Sothoryos too. It's also (rather solidly) theorised that structures such as Moat Cailin are fused black stone.

The Deep Ones are the source of the Seastone Chair, the Toad Stone on Toad Isle, & likely also the "*squamous, fishheaded gods*" on the tide-receded shores of (some of) the Thousand Islands. I subscribe to the ~~canon~~ theory that Asshai was the capital of the Great Empire of the Dawn & so made of fused black stone, however the Deep Ones were responsible for sending the black stone from the heavens to the Bloodstone Emperor & essentially corrupted the entire city (now becoming oily, greasy black stone) & hinterlands (Stygai & the Shadow Lands). Likely also Yeen as well, whether at the start of the Long Night as well, or at some other stage. There's been no mention of the oily black stone in show canon, or obsidian being used in architecture in book canon. So, no. It just refers to Valyrian buildings.

Edit: TWOIAF clarifies that (at least in the books) Valyrian buildings are NOT oily to the touch. But otherwise seem similar.  That´s impossible, no internal lore evidence shows that.I can see the Poor Quentyn in those words, the Lovecraft-esque world that exists beneath this Fantasy World. And Euron is bridging those worlds.I think Empire of Great Dawn is just a jab at Chinese legends tbhI think they are mentioned in Histories & Lore video. Those videos are canon. Sure there is. I'll preface it with saying that the World book is ambiguous by nature and open for interpretation.

I believe the Valyrians are descended from the Great Empire of the Dawn. If we look back, the greatest civilianisation pre-dating the Valyrians are the GEOTD. Their Empire was huge, far bigger than any race/culture we've seen. If we look at the key elements of their Empire, we have the Five Forts and this 'oily black stone'. It's said that the forts were built by the Pearl Emperor and we know Asshai also contains this odd architectural substance. Asshai was said to been a once great port and city, far bigger than any in Westeros, so it makes sense that this was a main domain of the Empire. If we look at Asshai then we know it's heavily linked to the Azor Ahai prophecy and, coincidentally, so is the Empire. It was said that the Bloodstone Emperor brought about the Long Night and was put to an end by a great warrior. Factor in the Five Forts on the edge of the Grey Waste (icy landscape) and we have a story that seemingly makes sense given its parallels to Westerosi history. 

We also know that Asshai features heavily in regards to Dany. It's where she receives her dragon eggs from, Jorah tells her to go there and it's a big part of Quaithe's prophecy which Dany plays in her mind throughout the books. Lore seems to tell us why as well. Dragons. It's said they originate from the shadow and still dwell there. This could be mere speculation, but we know Dany's eggs were real. Given Asshai was once a vast large city located within the GEOTD's domain and the signature oily black stone, it's not hard to put two and two together. Not to mention, how exactly could this Empire have extended so far? Well we know why the Valyrians held so much power in Essos. Dragons.

There's also some pretty clear textual symbolism supporting this theory as well. In Dany's House of Undying vision, she sees figures seemingly resembling Valyrians/Targs. Their eye colours coincidentally match each of the Emperors listed in the World book. 

Linking all this to Westeros though. We know the Long Night wasn't just a single event affecting one land, but an intercontinental event. Tales come from all different lands, houses, and cultures. If this Azor Ahai is linked with Asshai and the Empire, then is it out of the question that Westeros is also linked? Even if we rule that out, we have this 'oily black stone' in Old Wyk and Oldtown. A seemingly signature architectural structure of the Empire existing half a world away? Note also how it appears as well. Used as a defence in Essos, the oily black stone serves a similar purpose at battle isle in Oldtown. We also know that 'Dragonsteel' was used during the Long Night, as discovered by Sam. So pre dating Valyria. Where did Westeros get such weaponry from? Dany's vision also shows the figures holding 'pale swords'. 

---

I think it's naive to say the concept of this is impossible. There's clearly evidence in the World book and even in the actual ASOIAF series. It's meant to be ambiguous, but there's an element of truth hidden in these legends.

We do know those are different type of black stone, they are not all the same, neither is the architecture of the buildings and the composition of the stones.

>Not to mention, how exactly could this Empire have extended so far?

Yi Ti is almost as big without Dragons, this assumption is unfounded at best. In our world Empires of similar sized existed without Dragons anyhow.

>If this Azor Ahai is linked with Asshai and the Empire

Azor Ahai is not linked to Asshai or the Dawn, it IS the Dawn and Asshai´s version of the "Last Hero" legend, that was also present in Hirkoon, Westeros, Rhoynar and so on. I don´t think we should assume everyone was Valyrian related.

>I think it's naive to say the concept of this is impossible.

It is impossible, you cite the Empire of the Dawn but that empire existed when the first men were already in Westeros. And again the stones are of different kinds, the one in the Iron Isles can easily be of some other race not related to Valyrians at all.


You assume that because there are elements of other cultures in a certain land it means that the population must have been there before, instead of you know, importing the materials, later colonization and whatnot.


I can see the Empire of the Dawn being ancestor, either spiritual or genetic, of the Valyrians but that´s far from saying that even Westeros or in general all Black Stone related buildings are from that Empire.

You probably know this, but this video explains the more nuanced view:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Vf2oDALGCz0

Black stone =/= Valyrian related>We do know those are different type of black stone, they are not all the same, neither is the architecture of the buildings and the composition of the stones.

No we don't for certain. The World book is Maesters speculating and nowhere does it make the clinical distinction that these substances are different - in fact it goes out of its way to say otherwise. 

We know that the Five Forts are stated to be of a strange 'fused black stone'. The same term is used for the base of the Hightower in Oldtown. One Iron Born scholar made the connection between Hightower base material and the Seastone Chair, which is described as 'oily black stone'. The same exact description for Asshai, where seemingly the entire city is made of the stuff. So here we have two 'fused stone' substances used as fortification half a world away. We also have scholars relating the oily black stone substance to the fused black stone. The book literally implies they're the same. 

>Yi Ti is almost as big without Dragons, this assumption is unfounded at best. In our world Empires of similar sized existed without Dragons anyhow.

I was merely just posing a question about how an empire got so big and drawing a parallel to the Valyrians and how they achieved their success. It wasn't the main part of my argument.

>Azor Ahai is not linked to Asshai or the Dawn, it IS the Dawn and Asshai´s version of the "Last Hero" legend, that was also present in Hirkoon, Westeros, Rhoynar and so on. I don´t think we should assume everyone was Valyrian related.

Huh? I'm not sure what you're trying to say here. The specific version of the tale comes from Asshai. The take could be literal or metaphorical, it still is connected to Asshai. I'm not even speculating on who Azor Ahai is. Mainly that the Great Empire of the Dawn is linked with the legend as well as Asshai - both conveniently located with the domain of the Great Empire at the time. 

>It is impossible, you cite the Empire of the Dawn but that empire existed when the first men were already in Westeros. And again the stones are of different kinds, the one in the Iron Isles can easily be of some other race not related to Valyrians at all.

No it's not. The World book says the Great Empire of the Dawn had rulers spanning over a millennia. The first Emperor was said to have ruled for 10,000 years. Like with all the legendary figures and tales, you take that info with a pinch of salt. However, it implies the Great Empire of the Dawn has been around far longer than any current branch of man. The World book also mentions a few times of civilisations of men in Westeros - predating the First Men. Some say Garth and his followers came before and it's said that the Iron Born are a separate branch as well. I'm suggesting the Great Empire of the Dawn were in Westeros far before the First Men. You can't say it's 'impossible' because the world book implies that that colonies of men to have possibly existed in Westeros before the First Men. It also implies that the Great Empire of the Dawn is far older than the First Men. 
I think in the next episode, Yara and the Sand Snakes will try to take KL and get into a brawl with Euron's forces, so that could add up.Euron arrived in King's Landing first. Dany at Dragonstone second. The only way out is near Dragonstone, so Euron is headed for a conflict with Dany's fleet. There's no other way around it. Her fleet has to be his target. It's his strength. He knows his siblings. He's going after Dany's fleet.The TV writers aren't following book cannon any more. Most people who watch probably aren't book readers so things like this don't matter. If Arya can survive falling into a sewer with an open gut wound, I can overlook this. with the plot following occams razor at this point, you will likely see Dany's fleet attempt to attack King's Landing by sea in unison while attacking the rock by land. I forsee Euron's fleet absolutely wiping out Dany's cutting her off from the rest of her armies in the west. Dany will probably be forced to follow a similar path as stannis to go north. I.E. She must go east, to go west. She must go South to go north... One thing about Yara and Theon stealing the fleet; 
The sailors were still on board, and there were Lords that support her that may have been drowned out by calls for Euron that came with her to command those ships. There probably should have been a battle, because not all of those ships would have come willing. Did all of the people bitching about the show not making sense not watch the preview for next week? The fleets being near each other is absolutely a plot point.I think it's temporal blindness and very limited field of vision of people living in GRUM world. The same way how Vale army passed through Neck and to Winterfell without single watchman spotting giant army moving. So it fits that two two fleets failed to spot each other as they passed through Blackwater BayAll the shit about the two fleets getting there is weird and stupid but if you're worried about where Euron's going after King's Landing... There's literally a naval battle in the trailers. He's not trying to ignore or avoid Dany he's going straight to her. And this is pretty much the only time I can conceive of in the season where a naval battle can take place, seeing as there's battles on land such as the field of fire 2.0 in the trailers. Don't expect Euron to be any good this season though, they've given him a bullshit armada and forced him into the plot so he can be the big bad expendable psycho baddie for the last few episodes before the White Walkers come. That's why he feels laden with plot contrivances.  Well, the scenes don't necessarily take place at the exact same time. If it happened just a few days apart, the two fleets don't need to have passed within sight of eachother. They don't necessarily know the other's location.

[Example](http://i.imgur.com/EUqs8P9.png)

If Dany's fleet is the red line, coming up from Dorne (they probably sailed past there to pick up Varys) and Euron's is the blue line, the two fleets would have had to cross paths on basically the same day in order to meet.[deleted]You're expecting the show to be consistent or make sense when it hasn't for the last 3 seasons LOLThe same way Varys was in Meereen, then he was in Dorne, then he was with Dany sailing to Westeros, all within like three scenes of each other.

All the ships have jetpacks in this world.Littlefinger is working with Euron and teleported his fleet into King's Landing. But seriously I'm pretty sure we're set for Euron attacking dragonstone next episode or two. I assume with the plan of taking Tyrion hostage.There is no time or distance in this show dude. Nothing concrete. It's just an inconsistency. [Dragonstone](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/File:Crownlands.png) is actually well north of Kings Landing, so conceivably if Dany's fleet headed straight to the eastern shore of DragonStone, Euron's fleet could slip into Blackwater Bay from the South (where they would be coming from) without the two fleets crossing paths. In the real world a fleet that big would have scout ships that would never allow another fleet to get that close, but then again maybe Euron's scouts spotted Dany's fleet and that's why he is so confident in being able to grab a gift for Cersei.Temporal separation.Aren't they coming from opposite directions? The Iron Islands are west of Westeros, Dany came from the East? Also, you're really overestimating how easy it would be to run into each other, it takes like fucking days or weeks to overtake ships if you're going faster.Well, she did receive medicine and help from Lady Crane.Why the hell would I watch the preview for next week? I'm going to watch the show next week.  

You can't really be faulting me for saying "this is inexplicable" for something that MIGHT be explained next week? Why is Euron coming from Essos in that map? Doesn't he come from Pyke? Yeah, Euron could have gotten to King's Landing a week or two before Dany got to Dragonstone. This post just seems like nitpicking to me. If her fleet came up first then its completely inexplicable that Eurons fleet is at Kings Landing. Either he got there first or she's the worst naval commander in the history of water.True. Since season 4 the show has not given a fuck about consistent writingYou can be sure, that there are definitely days if not weeks of timejumps between different scenes. There is never spoken about certain times, so...And "because plot."

And just because it wasn't explicitly stated doesn't mean Daenerys' fleet doesn't know about Euron's magic scrap-wood fleet. (Given the wood "shortage", I wonder if that's anything more than a show fleet. Build a few ships, flash a fancy jacket, fast talk the Mad Queen and hope for the best. Might not have the strength or numbers needed to hold the entrance to the bay.)Here's something to help you visualise the problem people see with the two fleets.  

http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Blackwater_BayYes one from the east one from the west, but BOTH have to come UP through the narrow sea...which is pretty narrow, especially all the way down south where they'd be coming from.The only way into King Landings is right past Dragonstone trough ship. I assume they had different timeframes. Dr. Crane.The preview plays right after the episode finishes...> You can't really be faulting me for saying "this is inexplicable" for something that MIGHT be explained next week?

That's exactly what I'm faulting you for.

You're complaining about what you *think* you know, with no thought to the idea that these complaints may prove to be unfounded in the very next episode. We're talking about a plot line that *just* started.

And you are absolutely in the minority in never watching the previews.Most people watch the preview for a snippet about what may happen in that show's next episode. We have no idea if Dany or Euron arrived first and, for all we know, Euron is now on his way to Dragonstone to source Cersei's 'gift'.

Dany may have arrived the day after Euron and he will bump into her on his way back out of Blackwater Bay? It's far from inexplicable. Especially with 6 episodes to go.Yeah, I don't know why I thought he came from Essos. Still, it's entirely possible that the two fleets simply didn't cross paths.Last episdoe of season 6 and this episode probably saved about a half a book worth of characters doing boring things. Ships sailing, maybe Aria training, the lords of the north traveling and meeting, Bran traveling... Since they have fewer eps this year, I'm glad they just used this ep (and the break really) to set the stage for important things. This post's complaint is almost as pointless as "why is no one at Dragonstone." Sure there could of been people there, but who wasn't going to run from an enormous fleet and 3 dragons? There isn't even food there at this point, and winter is coming to their home lands. They just are getting to the meat of the story faster.Tbh this sub is basicly "how can i sound smart by complaining about the show".That sort of traveling would take months, not days or weeks.jeez are u really whining over wood?Yeah but they'd be doing that weeks apart most likely.. Euron clearly arrives first. The real mystery is why he didn't HOLD that passage.Of course, even more likely that they wouldn't cross paths because they shared even less path.>  "why is no one at Dragonstone."

I was just arguing with someone in another thread who was saying that Dany and Arya didn't *earn* their moments last night. It's so ridiculous when they've been building up to this for the past six years. 

I mean, did we really need to see a few unsullied sweep ashore and kill whatever 10 or 20 bannermen or pirates were still on Dragonstone?Months are made up of days and weeks. Over islands that have nothing except ugly women and idiots yeah. Ship building is hard and resource intensive. Timbers for masts and keels is difficult to source and they magically find a few hundred perfect trees. > The real mystery is why he didn't HOLD that passage.

Why would he start fighting a war if he wasn't sure he would be rewarded by Cersei?Which is part of my question...where did he go? It seems like bad safety/planning from both fleets so far. Thank you, I wasn't aware.HeDidTheMath  She still hasn't promised him anything.Does either fleet really know where each other is right now?  I mean, Jaime didn't even know the Iron Fleet was going to Kings Landing, so how would Khaleesi know? True.Because they'd have to physically pass each other.  Euron passed by dragonstone twice, and they were both sailing from the south of westeros along the narrow sea up toward king's landing.  Doesn't mean it was at the same timethe only way they could miss each other is if Euron went to kings landing ahead of Danny, then sailed away north somewhere.  otherwise he'd almost certainly have to pass her coming up the narrow sea. It's Mance's babe in Oldtown not Craster's, right?Wrong way around. The Others will want their missing brother back, and it will be their incentive to invade the south. Like how the north wanted Lyanna/Sansa/Arya back.The White Walker Sam killed came for little Sam like he had a homing beacon.  I like the idea of them having some kind of connection.In the books, yes. In the show, no.Somehow I didn't remember that from the books, in that light this theory is less good.I've been saying this for years. :PGuys, i think it was about king aerys and joanna... thoughts?I believe the line is actually "but a *woman's* hands are warm." So probably not about Jaime.How would the Lannister soldiers even know that song? Tyrion had the singer killed before it could get out right?I thought the same thing. I'm surprised no one put more thought into this. I know that in book context it is a song about Tyrion and Shae, but it makes so much sense.I think [this](https://www.google.com/amp/s/amp.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6dx676/spoilers_main_ive_been_working_on_a_theory_about/) is why. What if the sword of the hero is in the middle of the iron throne.  The perfect place to put it to make sure it never gets found.  The whole political order protects the throne.

Also, yeah, pushing a burning Cersei as she gets impaled on her own throne and then drawing from her corpse the magic sword.  Crazy In the books it was about Tyrion (then Hand of the King) and Shae.I think it was a written song about them wanting to get home and be with a woman. And it was being sung by Lannister men who were talking about their new General, the golden hand.

That's how I read the lyrics in context anyway.Because they had Ed Sheeran so they had to put a song in thereYou know how Azor Ahai is supposed to draw a sword from a fire? And how the Red Keep will probably burn? And there's a ~~Chekov's gun~~*throne* made of swords in Red Keep?

A gold hand would sure be helpful if you wanted to pull a sword without a hilt out of a fire. And if you did that, your gold hand would be pretty warm.And GRRM would never put a double meaning or foreshadowing into his books. It's just that the combination of that scene with the references to that song in the books is most compelling.  
And there's not only the song, but the fate pf the singer who composed it- bowl o' brown, anyone?  

I think D&D indulged themselves in a many layered Easter Egg here, with a wink to how GRRM treats singers in the saga.Nah, a gold hand, with it's lack of hardness and low melting point, would not serve the purpose.Never said he wouldn't. Just offering some book perspective on the in world basis of the song.Well, it would be useless if it was made of solid gold. I'm sure it's plated.Are you saying the Lannister's are cheap? Surely they gave the 100% golden lion a 100% golden hand, right?Hand is solid gold with mother of pearl fingernails. I'm pretty sure it's played in the books, way more practical that wayActually, its gilded steel.  Pure Gold would never have stopped that Dornish foot soldiers sword.  Jaime thinks about it in the books and how it only looks like Gold. In the show pod asks and ryrion states that its plated when him and jamie have a feed together cant remember in the booksWell then it's heavy, fragile, expensive, and useless.That event doesn't happen in the book. I acknowledge that it is explicitly stated to be gilded in the show, but according to [A Wiki of Ice and Fire](http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Jaime_Lannister) it is solid gold in the bookverse.In bookverse it's solid gold, showverse I'll take your word for it 👌It's already been used once to save his life...unexpectedly..in Dorn.Yep, I don't think it was ever said it wasn't.Well then TIL something new.  Could have sworn it was gilded in the books too.Tyrion muses about how Jaime's armor is gilded steel when he is talking with the jailer at the Eyrie, I believe. He tells him it's solid gold, knowing the guy wouldn't know the difference (is his name Mord? Lol can't remember)And then Arya is killed by the guards?

Bitter sweet?
I want to point that when arya is being interrogated by the Waif about who she was, the waif asked about the list, when Arya said "the hound" the Waif hit her and Arya admits that the hound is out of ther list. I know that she is commited to kill Cersei but I think that in her way she will be informed about Sansa and Jon being in Winterfell amd maybe she will change her mind, also i know that Littlefinger never was on her list but he was responsable for the beheading of his father and it will be interesting if Arya takes revenge for thatthe disguises of the FM are pretty much perfect thus far. no one's been caught because they were too short or whatever...it's clear there's magic involved.Arya will take on someone's face once she reaches the capital (I don't know who though). Jaime is just unlikely at this point unless he falls in battle. 
  
The big question is how she is planning to get past the Mountain. Faceless man or no faceless man, the Mountain would savage her in seconds, and he has never left Cersei's side since his transformation. 

The only thing I can think of is that Cersei (at an hour of desperation) is going to send the Mountain on a mission to take on some enemy (Dany? Sansa?) and that will leave her vulnerable. The word Valonqor has never been used in the show. That aspect of the prophecy was left out. Maybe Arya will take on the face of Cersei? Send the Hound on a mission or at least away from the castle. Than Arya will take the form of Jaimie and than kill Cersei.i heard this theory on Radio Westeros a year or so ago, i think its def the secret ingredientI always thought valyrian steel was regular steel smelted in Dragonfire, but you could be correct.  Dragonglass sounds like obsidian, and I don't see how adding glass/obsidian to steel would work.  It's a fantasy show though, so who knows.Highly doubtful. Dragonglass can only be made malleable by dragon fire, yet Ned's greatsword Ice was reforged into two blades with just a normal forge. The process would destroy the dragonglass. I think the steel is just magic'd. I ultimately think Sam and Gendry will be forging some Valyrian steel, in both show and book, so I think you're right. Sam is definitely on to something. I don't think that.Most importantly adding to this theory is that we saw Gendry in old-town, scrubbing pots with sam.  A blacksmith who has worked with valyrian steel before.I think it's all made by dragon fire. That's the key element in the glass and steel IMO.I bet you dollars for donuts you need dragonglass AND the Fire of a dragon to make valerian steel. 

Perhaps dragonglass is not volcanic but rather the result of dragonfire on some sort of stone?I mean this is kinda the obvious assumption. I hope it isn't that simple because that would mean everyone in westeros is an idiot. I don't think so. The art of forging Valyrian Steel was lost after the doom of Valyria. If it was as easy as using dragonglass then someone must have figured it out by now. I think there must be more processing involved.Reading the page on the book about Dragon Glass in S07E01 at 52 minutes 23 seconds

> The Valyrians were familiar with dragon glass before they came to Westeros; They called it zerlyf percill(?), which translates to "frozen fire" in Valyrian, and cajfems(?) texts tell of how their dragons would thaw the stone with their dragon flame until it became molten and malleable.

> The Valyrians then used it to build their strange monuments and buildings without seams and joins of our modern castles.

> When Aegon the Conqueror forged his seven kingdoms, he and his descendants would often decorate their blades with dragon glass, feeling a kinship with the stone. The royal fashion for dragon glass ornamentation spread throughout the seven kingdoms to those wealthy enough to afford it.

> Hilt and Pommel were and are the most common decoration for dragon glass, for dragon glass is too brittle to make a useful cross-guard. Indeed, its very brittleness is what relegates it to great houses and the most successful merchants. 

[On the same page is pictured the same Valyrian Steel blade (used by catspaw in Season 1 to attempt to kill Bran Stark](http://www.darkknightarmoury.com/images/PRODUCT/large/Game-7_2_.png)

So basically, dragon flame makes obsidian molten and malleable. The Valyrians (also known for making Valyrian steel) were known for using molten obsidian to make "strange monuments and buildings without seams and joins".

The recipe for Valyrian Steel remains a secret. Obsidian is deadly to the others/white walkers (as is Valyrian steel). I've suspected for a while that Valyrian Steel is fortified with molten obsidian. We now know that only dragon flame melts obsidian. It would make sense that Valyrian Steel contains obsidian. 

As an aside, its interesting that the book states the "the great houses and most successful merchants" possess weapons decorated with dragonglass. The last known person to weild the above Valyrian steel dagger was Littlefinger, as he betrayed Ned in the Red Keep. Little finger is, without a doubt, a successful merchant. The lord of light whisper that in your ear?

Seriously though, was it just my head canon, or was this not already accepted as true? It's not used in Valyrian steel. It's about how it's made. Dragon fire. Valyrian steel is forged in dragon fire. Dragon fire has been likened to volantic lava in terms of its intense heat. Dragon glass is abundant on Dragonstone, and guess what happened there? Dragons nested there for hundreds of years. They likely slept in the caves on dragonstone. And how is glass formed? By melting certain minerals with intense heat, the main ingredient being sand (silica). If dragons are on an island, where they're nesting in sand and rocks, then wherever they shoot their dragon fire at, dragon glass is going to form. Hundreds of years of dragons living on an island is going to produce caves full of dragon glass.Since first reading the books i had always thought this. The wavy black lines in the steel are where obsidion, or at least maybe granules of it, were folded into the process, similar to damascusI also think Jon's command to find and mine dragonglass, and Sam's letter to him telling him that Dragonstone has tons of it, is the beginning of the thread that bring Jon and Dany together. If that's the case, then wouldn't the Targs have continued to forge Valyrian steel post doom? Seems a little too mundane for them to miss, unless we're strictly talking about the show, in which case you're probably on to something.  So Gendry will make a new Valyrian steel sword?Could be, but if you've ever seen raw slag from a blast furnace, the waste that is boiled off of the pure metal, it's a lot like obsidian.  It's dark, sometimes black, glassy, lot of melted silicon.  If you use it for road gravel it chips and breaks and is sharp enough to damage tires, so you could probably make arrowheads and knives out of a pure enough chunk of it.  It's exactly the stuff you *don't* want in good steel."Spell-forged steel" should involve a better spell than "toss some of that black shit in there".Yeah this has a lot of circumstantial evidence to back it up.  Like, why did the Valyrians ignore Westeros, yet still decided to colonize that tiny ass island in Blackwater Bay?  Probably for the Dragonglass.  In this episode, didn't Sam say "the Targaryens used to adorn their weapons with dragon glass."  I was like wait wut?  I figured it could be an ingredient but Sam's comment made it seem like obsidian or dragon glass was part of the swords handles or pommels.  Didn't GRRM himself deny that already on Westeros.org or his Not-a-Blog? I might be misremembering though.I figured that it was a combination of regular steel and dragonglass melted together by dragon fire since the fire of a full grown dragon can melt stone.Yes, it is essentially the coal for the iron to make steel. I don't get it though. Valyrian steel is Valyrian steel, that type of metal has its own unique properties? No idea why Dragonglass also kills it. The books mention Tywin needing to to bring in a specialist to melt down Ice, because so few blacksmiths are capable of working with Valyrian steel.  Maybe the books in the Citadel also include those instructions.Yup. This is my head canon as well.

It makes no sense for dragon fire being able to kill white walkers that easily. I'm betting that it's something like damascus steel, with obsidian being a strengthening material of some sort that just happens to be present and kill white walkers. noYeah definitely a good thought. Makes sense that is what Sam will discover in the Citadel later on.We have a winner.Holy shit, I think you're on to something.What?! When did we see gendry? Screenshots please!Trying to melt dragonglass will shatter it, only with dragonfire can it be made malleable.Honestly I thought this was just an accepted answer because I hadn't seen it questioned before.I love how you accidentally (?) made the word "volcanic" into "volantic", which could mean "from Volantis" :)Then we get Jon's parentage reveal, and Dany finds out she has a ~~sibling~~ relative, and Jon's like "hey auntie, can I borrow your dragons? Thx"

It'll still look awesome though.

EDIT:  Family is hardOr hammer....This is what I was looking for. Obsidian doesn't strike me as the best thing to add to steel material wise.

I think this theory is on the right path, but in a more indirect way. I.e. obsidian and Valyrian steel both embody the same "fire magic" that dragons also have, which is the key to destroying the Others' physical forms.  I'd assume a dragon is required for its heat/fire and magic.
Edit: but on second thoughts, there is probably/definitely more to it than that or the Targs could have made way more...
I transcribed that page:

> The valyrians were familiar with dragonglass long before they came to westeros. they called it zirtys perzys, which translates to frozen fire in valyrian, and eastern texts tell of how their dragons would thaw the stone with dragonflame until it became molten and malleable. The valyrians then used it to build their strange monuments and buildings without seams and joints of our modern castles :.

> When aegon the conqueror forged his seven kingdoms. He and his descendants would often decorate their blades with dragonglass, feeling a kinship with the stone. The royal fashion for dragonglass ornamentation soon spread throughout the seven kingdoms to those wealthy enough to afford it :. Hilts and pommels were and are the most common decoration for dragonglass is too brittle to make a useful crossguard. Indeed its very brittleness is what relegates it to the great houses and the most successful merchants.Dragonglass is often used as jewelry in ASIOF so that is what I thought he meant.They also showed a very iconic Valyrian steel dagger that had a hilt made of dragonglass. I feel like the two things are very interwoven.I thought that was specifically about whether or not dragonbreath fire melting the steel was the key ingredient.I'm pretty sure I remember that too. I think he's saying that dragonglass is an ingredient in making valyrian steel ~because volcano fire magic~ and it also can give valyrian steel wight killing propertiesOne thought I had last night, that massive library of all the world's knowledge, yeah, that's gonna burn down.That's the thing, the knowledge of how to make valyrian steel went down with Valyria. The few people that can work it can only reforge and manipulate already existing steel...they don't know how to create it from scratch. Nobody living does.Sam killed a walker with a straight up shard of obsidian.

I think that valyrian steel is volcano forged or something, tying it to the obsidian.The real threat of dragons is "fire made flesh" which is the same symbolic threat the first men posed to the children of the forest and their trees.I like this idea. But this doesn't explain why it doesn't shatter like normal steel. Also from a practical non hand waved magic standpoint, obsidian would make your steel awful. I think it might have something to so with it but I think maybe some sort of Dragon fire forge is a good possibility too Well fire kills the wights pretty easily, dragons are just a really good dispenser of fire 26:56 into the episode, the person scrubbing pots next to Sam. Which more than likely means there isn't dragonglass in Valyrian steel. If Ned's greatsword was reforged into two other blades by the master blacksmith in King's Landing. I was thi king it would more of like a start to a new Targaryen incest dynasty.Dany already knows she has a sibling. She knows all about Rhaegar? Unless you meant Jon and if so, that's not how siblings work.Or an oar. zirtys perzyssomeone get u/caaaaan_do a Pulitzer please!  Thank you Maester.yea i just figured it could've meant they either just used it for hilts and pommels or even in the forging process but I was confused because I couldn't recall any known blades having dragonglass adorning the blade in any way.I thought the hilt was dragon bone?but I thought Valyrian Steel is enchanted for wight/ww killing properties.In the books at least Euron is definitely going to nuke Oldtown. We'll see how it happens in the show, but yeah the Citadel is not going to stand for long.I had the same thought. Old Town is pretty clearly a parallel for Alexandria, what with the massive library and the massive lighthouse.  That library is doomed. :(... for now!!That could be a possibility as well. All I'm saying is that, unlike Dany's philosophy, the answer ain't simply "dragons" ;) >We have been able to demonstrate neither flaking of glass blades into the wounds nor any foreign body reaction in healed wounds.

>The prismatic glass blade is infinitely sharper than a honed steel edge...

https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/m/pubmed/7046256/I always assumed there was blood magic involved but have considered dragonglass being used as well (considering the color of Valyrian Steel). Ice was reforged in Qohor, so we can assume that they remember some of the elements. If you check out the lore and history of Qohor, it's considered a city of sorcerers that worship a goat who demands blood sacrifice. In the World of Ice and Fire, a visiting maester claims that Qohorians use blood sacrifice as part of the ritual of reworking the steel. Considering that the maesters believe magic to be evil, there's a good chance that the gruesomeness he's describing is exaggerated, but I can't see any reason for that to be an outright fabrication.Iron + carbon + dragonglass + forged with dragonfire like the Iron Throne = Valyrian steel.definitely not gendry. hes been gone so long you forgot what he looked likeWasn't it confirmed this episode that dragonglass, if used on swords, was only as a merely decorative thing?Dany's barren though, no?  After she lost the first baby, I thought she was unable to bear more.Sorry, meant to say relative.Changed it. That bit was hard for me to see :DGee, where might we find a literal shit ton of dragon bones?Steel is basically forged by mixing iron with varying levels of carbon (for different kinds of steel). The OP is suggesting that dragonglass is also used in the process in creating Valyrian steel, giving it's magical properties.>For scholars and students of history, the fall of Sallosh by the Silver Shore was especially tragic, for when that City of Scholars burned, its great library was not spared, and most of the history of the Tall Men and the peoples who had gone before them were lost for all time. TWOIAF Beyond The Free Cities: The Grasslands

I always thought this was the parallel to The Library at Alexandria 

Or the Baghdad House of Wisdom which was destroyed by the Mongols.Especially with all that light shining in via mirrors.

Unless it's some sort of anti-Other laser system that sam discovers...Fair point.They weren't talking about how sharp or dull the blade would be though, they were talking about what adding glass to steel would do (nothing positive or useful). Without magic of some sort, adding obsidian to steel would make the final product worse than if you had just made a normal sword.Hmm possible. But no I still believe that is Gendry. Doesn't mean they don't end up together somehow. Also magic.I'm sure Stannis will mention it at some point and Sam will think it probably won't be important.If dragonglass can only be made malleable by dragon fire then I don't think it is a part of Valyrian steel. Ice was reforged into two blades with just a forge, which would have destroyed the dragonglass. It is also regularly refered to as "spell forged" Pretty sure that was an elaborate [Orrery](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Orrery), helping them model the seasons. Many fantasy orrery's look like that, a big giant room with mirrors.My joke last night was the Maesters really hate ants. > adding obsidian to steel would make their final product worse

Isn't Damascus or Wootz steel reportedly the same type of structure? Using magnetite instead of obsidian? 

Damascus steel also used biomass from what I've read, so it very well could be that biomass is "blood magic" in this universe.http://i.imgur.com/YjOOl9J.jpgI haven't laughed this hard at a comment in a whileBecause the plot demands it. Weeks or months may have passed between Arya's encounter with Ed Sheeran and the scene with The Hound. There's no reason to assume that they're contemporaneous. That wasn't the Inn was it?  It was that farmhouse that Arya and the Hound stayed at. 

It's possible the farmhouse is north of where Arya is, or could be near the mountains of the Vale and higher elevation means snow.  Yeah the Hound is with a group of people who have had no relationship to anyone else in the plotline, so it's quite possible they're a bit ahead of Arya right now. Yeah, I think the farmhouse is in the Vale or near it based on the first episode they go there.

However, it could be that Arya is a farther south than we think.

Travel time is jumbled as fuck in the show, but they can't be blamed for the size of Westeros and the need to get characters where they need to be.I thought it was a Guy Ritchie or Danny Boyle thing myself. I always thought Wright was initially doing a light hearted take of Aronofsky stuffAnd here I was, thinking that the jumpcut was an innovation attributable to silent Soviet cinema.

Thanks, Reddit!Isn't a porpouse a type of sea creature?maybe it's just my sense of humor but i love toilet humor and this scene had me laughing - especially because it is so unlike Game of Thrones. Correct me if I'm wrong but isn't that editing, not cinematography? Cinematography is focused on composition, lighting, etc.

And it's been in use long before Edgar Wright picked it up.Can we get the montage dubbed with yackety sax? 

https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=ZnHmskwqCCQBravo Vince.It reminded me more of Darren Aronofsky. We're finally getting the Game of Thrones Requiem for a Dream hybrid. I know right? But I wasn't quite pleased with it, considering I waited a year for this...They seem to both eat and shit in the same bed pan... which explained why they continuously needed bed pans.You reference that style to Edgar Wright?  You know basically no film history. I know I did, especially in an episode heavily featuring Inspector Frank Butterman and the Neighborhood Watch's Lurch.TIL Edgar Wright invented the jump cut.I thought it was a shitty sequence!!! And I loved it! Although it did make me regret my choice of making chili for dinner... It also brought to mind Sam Raimi and Darren AronofskyI'm pretty sure that comedy technique predates Edgar Wright. 

But it was off-tone with the entirety of the series. All 6 seasons and we've seen nothing close to that sort of editing, and its just one more visual change that will stick out like a sore thumb on a series rewatch. But hey, consistency and continuity be damned if we can get a giggle without having to write dialogue.I think it was actually a pretty clever way of visually showing us how shitty Sam's time at the Citadel was without using any dialogue, and using similar containers for the food both before and after use was smart. I do think it went on a bit, though; like, we got it after the first thirty seconds or so. just felt like a waste of show time to meI could've done with a few less bed pans.Yeah Scorsese uses it too but he ripped it off someone else. Requiem for a Dream of SpringThis is exactly what I thought when I was watching that scene.[deleted]They weren't jump cuts, which only slightly vary in camera position (eg youtubers talking). They were smash cuts.Hmmm.
No.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=atjhOhH-V3ENah that's Philip Defranco.I know... like what?Username checks out.Who? Did Edgar Wright influence them too?

/sThe last season or so has been riddled with stuff like that. The Dothraki making weird jokes about banging each others grandmas, Tyrion making jokes and drinking wine with Grey Worm and Missandei, etc. 

It's weird and a lot of that stuff is way out-of-universe to me. I don't really dislike it as much as others seem to but it's definitely weird.This was how it felt to me. It had me wondering if a lack of literary foundation has made the tone of the show a little kite-in-the-wind. That edit wasn't all out egregious, but it definitely made me feel like the director was aware of the viewer in a gratuitous and unnecessary way. Same with the Thoros hair bun line.Yeah, it's a good scene it just doesn't fit at all.It was more Guy Ritchie to me than Edgar Wright.The show's subtlety is already dead... that's why I want Littlefinger to stay alive for as long as possible.We got the "Sunset found her" scene after allI think they stretched it a bit so as to really annoy the viewer, helping us deeply sympathise with Sam's *shit* routine, in a very short amount of time. Well done to them, because even I was annoyed.> how shitty

made me lafff out of loudnessThe episodes are extremely long this year. It's not 'wasted' time, were not getting bedpans instead of Jon and Dany time together. It's additional time, specifically for bedpans! It was the one thing I didn't like about the episode, other than that, I loved it.They needed to show the passage of time in the quickest way possible. That's what montages are for. That sequence was chosen to *save* time. They don't have a cap on how long the episodes are.I felt like it was a good way to show he has been there studying and doing his duties there for a good amount of time so people don't complain about him only being there for a few days or something A GURM fan bitching about redundancy. 😳Fewer. Show version of *the more she drank the more she shat*SARCASM

I do love Edgar Wright's work though.Millennials is my guess. Unfamiliar with the classic works of yesteryear like Casablanca, Gone With the Wind, and Snatch.That's a good layman's term for it.  At no other point I can remember has the camera been "aware of the viewer" like in that Sam montage.  

It also sticks out as odd to me because montages would have been a way to deal with all of the "teleportation" problems if they were on the table the entire time. Idk, it didn't really annoy me actually. I thought it was pretty funny. I let out a solid "har!" everytime Sam gagged. Thought it was indicative of his character a nerdy pampered weirdo that he wouldn't get used to smell or learn how to just toughen up and deal.Agreed but it was not necessary and was frankly off putting It is the opposite of The Mountain and the Viper when Tywin cuts the prayer short before the fight.Haha the Shitadel, amirite?? I understand why they did it, but the scene did not feel like Game of Thrones *at all*. Meanwhile, I'm watching this and thinking "well that was a good way to fast forward through two or three Sam chapters from TWOW".Money>  doing his *doodies* there for a good amount of time 

FTFY[You need a montage?](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pFrMLRQIT_k)*grinds teeth*What?[Obligatory.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QmKhGqWcJGY) [To show it all would take to long
That's called a montage (montage)
Oh we want montage (montage)] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pFrMLRQIT_k)[deleted]It was overdone and completely unneccesary. Everyone watching understood Sam's daily routine after they showed us initially, before the montage. It only needed to be shown once, not 15 times. 

It's honestly some of the worst directing in GoT history. It made me check to see if Mylod directed the episode, and I knew Podeswa did. I ocated just minutes from the High ToiletAlright, outSean Connery's favorite place in Westeros. The Citadel as a whole doesn't feel very "Game of Thrones." It's a part of the world but it's completely divorced from the war and cruelty the series is characterized by. That isn't a bad thing. It shows versatility. Don't you mean his entire TWOW arc? /s before anyone gets mad. Never mind...I think it was the perfect length. Sure, if it were a bit shorter it would've gotten the point across "quickly and efficiently" but the humor was in how long it kept going and there was even a slight lull about 75% of the way through that I think most people expected it to stop then, only to go on for a bit longer. I had a good laugh at it.Of course we *understood* that it was shitty after the first time. The montage was there to make us *feel* as shitty as Sam feels.

I physically gagged at the scene. Great scene, IMO.It was very different from the way they usually tell time. I for one did not like it/r/shubredditThat's a reasonable argument but does the editing change at any point when we see various parts of the world? As far as I can tell the lens (and by that I mean the narrative told through the editing) is the same. I didn't care for it either."It was bad because it was supposed to be bad, to make us feel bad!"

You don't have to show a character being shot in the shoulder 15 times to get viewers to understand the pain of a character being shot in the shoulder. 

Show us once, then start to repeat it before having Sam take an exasperated deep breath to get through another day of it all -- or something. Don't create a shitty montage of quick cuts like we're watching a fight scene in a Bourne film.

People will defend absolutely anything GOT-related, as if it has to be perfect 24/7 to be worthy of their praise and affection. It's ridiculous. 

And, you gagged? That's weird, and in no way normal. How do you deal with life if that scene made you gag? Poop smells, who knew?
        Damn, you're hostile, haha. Now I have to defend myself for gagging? Something about the rythm of the scene made gag every time Sam gagged. I'm not usually very sensitive.

This wasn't a case of me 'defending absolutely anything GOT-related'. I legitimately really liked the scene. It was one of my favourite scenes of the episode. Showing us just once wouldn't have had nearly the same effect (on me at least).

>You don't have to show a character being shot in the shoulder 15 times to get viewers to understand the pain of a character being shot in the shoulder.

Again, I'm not talking about *understanding* something, I'm talking about *feeling* something.

If you wan't to make the viewer emphazise with somebody doing something, boring, and gross, and repetetive, why not make the viewer feel like they're doing something boring, and gross, and repetetive? I thought the scene achieved that in a short amount of time. 
No point in arguing. He wouldve directed it better and thats why his TV show is more popular than game of thrones.  Cant argue with himIt was a great scene.I get a bit too aggressive with Redditors when empathy is brought up, out of annoyance. It seems that every other Redditor is the single most empathetic person alive, if you'd read their comments.

I don't need to, or want to, feel what a character is feeling. If I can understand what they're feeling, why do I need to feel it?

Purposely making a scene annoying to watch is lazy, and a cheap way to try to produce empathy/sympathy. Why wouldn't you want to feel it? Art is supposed to create emotion. Annoyance included. You create annoyance by getting me to sympathize or empathize with the character in the moment. Not by annoying me with how you tell the story. That's lazy, and frankly, insulting.    You're right. As Jon and Sansa were talking, I suddenly realised - hold on! The dialogue is actually good again!Parts of it were great , Especially with The Hound as you touched upon. I feel that many other arcs are slower moving than they need to be at this point. Given the shortened season. Yeah some of the sequences had some of the more subtle dialogue Ive seen in the show for a while. I knew there was something that reminded me of season 1 but I didn't know what it was. Feels very calm before the storm and the dialogue is similar. Sure, the premiere was very good and did give scenes time to breath, but it's nothing like season 1. Seasons 5, 6, and 7 all had moments like this. The show still feels rushed.Generally a solid first episode. Loved the Sandor scenes especially the bit where he was asking Beric what was so special about him and he went on to say about better men have been hung and beheaded. Who's he talking about? Obv the Septon but I like to think he's acknowledging Ned Stark was a good man and he will go on to tell Jon and Sansa about what LF done to Ned and that's how LF will die.
Everything still feels rushed, nothing like the first seasons imoAh. I haven't read the books so that makes a lot of sense. Clegane's arc is my favorite part of the show by far.

Only character showing real, well scripted growth, without classic hur dur tv script tropes the show has been doing for the last 2 seasons

Like Jon being an idiot an charging head ups like a novice in Total War, because we need a cool POV action shot.

Jaime rapping Cercey for no apparent reason, because hey let's do something edgy.

I really fuckin' love the arc they have built for the Hound after moving past the books and I hope they stay true to it, the first episode is encouraging. Ya totally agree. This was actually my favourite episode one of any show I've seen. Maybe behind fargo season 1. And excluding season 5b of BB because it's one season in two 10% it felt like they remembered how to use silence to their advantage. The dialogue was better. The writing overall was better. The pacing felt much nicer and the characters felt like they had room to breathe. Giving the time for the scenes with Sandor seeing the family he "killed" then dealing with it is a nice contemplative, character developing break from the action that made the story feel better. It wasn't just "the hound and co set out to the north then straight to them teaming up." They're bringing back some of the journey and quiet parts, I assume to contrast with the coming storm of White WalkersYes! Longer scenes! More dialogue! It's what the show needs to build emotional attachment and tension for the viewers. Spectacles are nothing without good dialogue.

I felt this drawn out effect as well and I hope they keep it. I also feel like it helps that there are fewer places and people to reviewI agree. Really great directing, editing and writing.I liked episode 1 too due to them taking their time with the scenes. The slow pace and the dialogue was the opposite of what I was afraid of - rushed crap which  would instantly throw the series into action scenes and little dialogue. 
  
Personally I consider the majority of the complaints about episode 1 to be the complaints of what I'd call "The tears of overhyped actionjunkies".damn, i have so much i want to get off my chest - i'm surprised there's no big megathread for discussion of ep 1.

i was in so much pain for jaime when he cried out that 'our baby boy killed himself' and cersei just fucking shrugged him off, totally savage, nikolai's acting was immense in that scene- the look on his face is just pure horror and disbelief - is the woman he loves, the woman who spoke *constantly* of how fiercely she loved her children, really *really* over his death just like that??

it's like he got a taste of her delusion in that scene, 'a dynasty for *WHO* ?'

i feel like she's slightly more bonkers already than she was last season.Did anyone else feel like the acting between Cersei and Jaime was awkward at best when talking about their baby boy? Threw me off for a minute. Pls, Jaime. Burn something, if not a letter, sooner than later. Thx.lots of things really did it for me this episode.

i hated ed sheeran being there but the whole scene with arya eating with the lannister soldiers was perfect otherwise.

because its GOT, i expected them to look at her with... let's say, awful intentions. but no, you sit down with her, meet all these really human boys that have life and heart and goodness and kindness and you really go through shock with arya as she realises that perhaps she's the 'bad' one for sitting down with them with the intention to slit their throats. I really think the extra time in the writer's room for this season helped. At least for the first episode. Hopefully it continues.So glad I'm not the only one that thought this. HOWEVER..I doubt this pace will continue, I think it's going to quickly ramp up and get pretty hectic.I thought the pacing was much better. It felt like it took its time and wasn't racing from place to place.have you been watching season 3 of Twin Peaks? everything is drawn out and long and episode 3 and 8 grind to a screeching halt Yes, this episode gave us a lot of time to breathe and remember these characters and learn more about them.  It was great.  Yes, and there was some really nice dialogue out there too. The conversation between the Hound and the Brotherhood was great, Jon's speech and that whole scene with the kinds swearing an oath was great. Cersei venomous speech was amazing. Arya's speech as Walder Frey and posterior humanizing scene were excellent.

I know there are people out there who throw "BAD WRITING LOL" at everything they can (including that line about "old enough to drink" which obviously was not about a legal age and was a perfectly good casual line, gods people are stupid) but this episode's writing was great.This episode nailed the small character-building scenes. It's been a long time since they've done so well - the past couple seasons have been absolutely *abysmal* at those scenes.

I've seen a lot of people bemoan the lack of action in this episode. I totally disagree. These are the scenes that got me into Game of Thrones in the first place. There will be tons of action to come, keep nailing the stuff in between.Hey Small White Dick, I saw you in episode 1, on a cadaver, you weren't looking so hot, but you certainly lived up to your name.I agree. I'd rather have a drawn out scene of something I care about, like Sandor's character development or Jaime growing past Cersei, over rushed scenes of Dorne/Tryion talking about beetles/Dany pooping around in Meereen.I agree with the sentiment, but I don't see the comparison to Season 1. If anything, scenes in Season 1 were a lot more functional, aside the odd dialogue. They'd never have been bold enough to do a montage, or have several characters just walk in silence for several minutes. Season 6 and 5 in particular have plenty of scenes that take their time as well. Season 4 was probably the season that had the most drawn out scenes and stretches of dialogue, with scenes like the Tyrion's trial and Joffrey's wedding lasting up to 20 minutes. I feel the same way.  For a season that's going to be "rushed", the scenes were paced very nicely.  I think recent seasons suffered from the same thing the most recent two books did: too much scope. While having a massive, immersive world is quite a narrative accomplishment, coalescing the world coalesces the plot threads into something much more manageable not just for the audience, but also for the writers.

The thing that excites me most about this season is that seemingly none of it will transpire in Essos, which is the setting for my least favorite scenes in both the show as well as chapters in the books. Everything will happen in Westeros, and the story will be better for it.Really loved that shot of Thoros and Sandor burying the dead.

It was a really good looking episode."Jaime rapping cersei"

would this go down like Hamilton's cabinet battle? Because I'm not opposed...Yes, that was my biggest fear - that we wouldn't get these emotional scenes and it would only focus on action. I hope this continues, with battles in between. 

The depth didn't feel half baked this time. Pleased about this episode. :)Here you go.
The mega-thread is just that-mega!
https://www.reddit.com/r/asoiaf/comments/6nqg0q/spoilers_extended_discussion_game_of_thrones/> damn, i have so much i want to get off my chest - i'm surprised there's no big megathread for discussion of ep 1.
> 

There are two.They're both great actors, I think they do the best with what they have.. Tbh reading some of the script pages I cringe at the dialogue, and I remember Charles Dance saying (and I'm paraphrasing) that it is an actor's job to turn bad writing into something that is believable, something that 'works'. 

This is an unpopular opinion, but I found the dialogue between Sansa and Jon really artificial and a bit too expository for my liking. The same could be said about Cersei and Jaime's scenes this episode. They're trying to spell things out for the viewers who keep losing track of the plot. There could have been a really powerful/emotional scene written between Cersei and Jaime about what happened with Tommen and the Sept. There could have been a powerful scene written for Jon and Sansa after the Battle was won and Jon asks Sansa why she didn't tell him about the Vale. Even a thought-provoking scene about Jon grappling about having died and coming back to life - just like Beric says he grapples with the question 'why' every day. I'd like to hear that coming from Jon too. Sometimes I forget he died. It shouldn't be like that.

I guess television is a very different medium compared to the books, though, and you have to sacrifice some things. Hopefully the writing/dialogue between characters will improve as the season goes on :)YesYes completely awkward and not well written at all. Cersei's character has become completely cartoonish. And if I'm being completely honest, I've never been that impressed with the actor playing Cersei. It's always so heavy handed and one note imo. Jaime's character has gone down in quality as well. Of course, this may be due to the decline in writing quality in general of the show (although there are still incredibly written scenes sprinkled throughout, for example, anything with Gregor Clegane). So perhaps it's more the writer's fault than Lena Headley's. I recognized him and I didn't really mind it at all. Not sure why everyone is freaking out. I thought it was cool and light hearted like the scene was supposed to be. Do you think she will kill them afterwards? I was really sad when Ian McShane's character got murdered because I got attached to him (6 seasons and I'm still making rookie mistakes)I'm glad I had no idea who Ed Sheeran was until after I saw the episode and started reading what people were saying. Man that seemed to piss a lot of people off.The "old enough to drink" line struck me as a little silly at first, but after I thought about it for a second, it made sense. In this world, kids don't drink until they're 15 or 16, and the people in this scene a decent, simple people.The writing was amazing imo.  A lot of heat pre season for Jon and Sansa having beef but they perfectly explained Sansa's position (wanting him not to make the same mistakes as Robb and Ned) and Jon's (resentment for her political mind especially in regards to Cersei) it all made sense. Hear hear. I complained a lot about bad writing in previous seasons but this ep was grreat. Hope it continues. 

ETA: The Arya as Walder speech was amazing! It was written in Anya's character, her cadence and mannerisms, but with Walder's voice and face (obv). Very well done.I especially the Northern scene with the kids. At first you want to call Jon an idiot for being too soft, like Ned was. And then you see that, no, seriously, these are just two kids who would have nothing and nowhere to hide if their castles were taken from them.

Finally someone gets it. I see so many people barking under the wrong tree.The problem is that the small scenes weren't character-building, they were plot-building, with the exception of the Hound/BwB scene and the Cersei/Jaime scene.

The show has been very hit-and-miss with character development since season 4. Without GRRM's blueprint, the writers seem to have figured out a couple of characters and devoted all their meaningful efforts to them, while using the other characters as vehicles for badass lines and trailer clips that appeal to the lowest common denominator.

I agree that the lack of action is not a problem. But just having scenes without action doesn't mean characters are being developed.For real. Characters make these kinds of stories important. We gotta feel the feelings of the characters, and the whole scene with the hound and even Sam were good at showing how much they changed/how shitty and frustrated they are. I really liked this premiere Exactly. Why people bitching about Sam's poor routine annoy me. It was excellent visual storytelling. Yeah I was at a viewing party and afterwards so many people were saying it felt like nothing happened. This episode had some great moments. Sansa in the north, Jon as a king, the hound facing his past in a way, Dany returning to her birth place, Arya destroying the Freys root and stem >I've seen a lot of people bemoan the lack of action in this episode.

Welcome to the casual show fanbase. The ones responsible for the 'hur hur tits and dragons' reputation. I'm glad you shared this perspective because I'll admit that I found the scene with Sam at the beginning to be annoying. I was anxiously waiting for something to happen and was thinking "they're wasting precious moments on this!?"

But looking at the episode as a whole, it fits well and gets the message across. There are people going about their lives indifferent to the coming war. Indifferent to the trouble in Kings Landing. The discussion between Sam and the archmaester drives that home. People always act like the world is ending, but the maesters will still keep the books, and someone will still scoop the ~~shit~~food. Soldiers will still march blindly into battle and lords will still debate in the great halls.

Wheel keeps spinning.Exactly! Not every episode can be filled with fire and blood and crazy revelations. Gotta build up to those.I even liked Sam's stuff because of this. It allowed the show to mellow and breath a bit. We're reminded that this is a real and breathing world and, sometimes, it's full of shit.The chilly winds of winter doesn't exactly do you any favors. Agreed, except the beetle scene which I thought was awesome. I'd replace it with Tyrion making jokes, because that's pretty much the extent of his character in season 6.Instead of Dany pooping around we got Sam cleaning chamber pots I mostly agree, but I loved Tyrion talking about beetles, even if it definitely wasn't necessaryI've heard D&D specifically take a dump on the idea of montages so I was really surprised to see one. Someone had a great point in another thread, where they wish Arya and Dany's scenes were swapped - so Dany lands on Dragonstone as the first scene, leaving off from the finale and Arya gives that oomph at the end of the episode by killing the Freys and walking off with that vengeful smirk of hers.

To be honest, it kind of threw me off that Dany was the last character shown. I thought she wouldn't land until episode 2 near the end.I hope the rest of this feels as nicely paced as this episode. I find that funny because I agree that Essos has had the worst scenes since probably season/book 2. That said, I find Essos the most interesting as a location. I think I just find Dany's arc so fucking boring these days.So true. I love that both of the scenes with the maps (painting and table) declare that the pieces are finally in place, the alliances have been formed, and it's go time. Everything makes sense and it's time for some straight up war. The story hasn't felt this focussed since the third book.Well said. The heart of the show is Winterfell and Kings Landing. Things are drawing towards these places now, not further away. Wasn't that the point? Many of the characters diverged into their own story arcs and now we're converging. Show-wise, I think recent seasons only seem worse when you look at them in a vacuum but as an entire series it's better for it. And IIRC D&D wanted the entire series to feel like one long 74 hour movie where you could binge watch the entire thing and where the transitions between seasons were seamless. Absolutely agree with especially your last point. Who knew that the solution to the Meereenese knot was to simply just cut it?It was a really moving scene on both my first and second viewing, however on the second something occurred to me that made me laugh. I'm sure 99% of the reason the Hound was burying them was due to his remorse for having killed the innocent father and daughter, but the way the scene of him burying them immediately follows his vision of the horde of dead zombies in the flames makes me think that maybe he wasn't having such an easy time sleeping with the two corpses in the corner haha. In frozen ground... second dumbest scene behind arya being Walder Frey for weeks before that party. Holding court and playing politics for weeks without anyone noticing. This episode had some lazy writing, felt like an Avenger's film.The ships looked pretty good as welli loved seeing sandor's compassion here, he tries so hard to make you think he has none but my heart fucking broke when he started trying to recite the 7 gods stuff- just like the dude did over their rabbit stew dinner- and couldn't remember. 

also a really *really* cool 'easter egg' so to speak since sandor is the mysterious gravedigger in the books after arya leaves him to die. damn this season is killing it already!!!Really wish Berric had survived in the books instead of passing his flame to Lady Stoneheart. He was a way better character than she'll ever be. Just the whole dynamic between those 3 is fantastic. I could watch a spinoff of this. Kingslayer would low key be a filthy west coast alias ,around the early 90s .IT'S NOT MEGA ENOUGHthe issue for me was that he's a singer not an actor and seeing him was like "oh, that's ed sheeran. he's from the real world. weird" 

like it kind of broke the magic and immersion for me, if that makes sense?ugh yeah i was really sad when that happened too. the repertoire he had with sandor was wonderful and i was gutted to see them all die. they felt like a little piece of peace for sandor and i'm genuinely sad that he's been thrown back into the fray again. 

hmm... i really hope she doesn't kill them. i hope she has mercy and lets them live like she spared walder's wife. but hey, they're lannister men so who knows. i am shocked she's headed south for cersei- i really thought she'd be off up north! I think that scene was to illustrate some of the points in Septon Meribald's Broken Man speech in the books. Ordinary men fighting other men's wars, the injustice of their situation. The need to be on guard for broken men. But these lads weren't (yet) broken men. They just want the same things that she wants -
to be back home, with family. I think they're juxtaposing her desire for revenge with what she truly wants... which is to have her family back.

Which just reminded me of the scene with Arya and Gendry where she says "I could be your family!". I hope Gendry finds a family of his own in the end :)She feels sorry for them. She was going to kill them but they shared a rabbit and stories about how their lives suck because of the war and she stops being a complete psychopath for a moment. Don't worry though, she'll be back to her disturbing ways soon enough, because I think some of the Lannister soldiers will try to rape her and Nymeria which we saw in the preview will come and eat Ed Sheeren's face off. So they will die, but I don't think it will be by her hand directly, and I'll almost forgive them for not having the Freys devoured by a pack of wolves led by Nymeria (as I think they will be in the next book). It really takes you out of the scene, when the guys from Coldplay was there for the Red Wedding or that other band or Hardhome (I think) you could hardly notice it and was well done but here, because his face is so recognisable and that 'oh it's a new song' felt almost like a 4th wall break it didn't work for me I think it makes you stop and think "how old is Arya now?", too.That bit when Arya drops the pretense of acting like Walder while still wearing his face is the most I've liked Walder Frey the entire run of the show.  I dig the actor, but I hated Walder, up until those few lines.Poor little WeeJon.

And his little leather chains.

Like they were talking of attainting and stripping their families forever, discussing executing them, like a week after they're dads died.

Holy shit that would have been brutal.And when the Long Night comes, the whole North must be united. Now that Jon is king, antagonizing and resenting people who are not straight-up traitors is just not a good business. Jon still needs some political growth but as a leader he is doing the right thing.My only complaint is that I was really concerned that poor Sam would accidentally pour shit into a dining bowl.It's the first episode too - it was a great set-up for subsequent events. Don't get me wrong, I am waiting for Jon and Dany to start hashing out some treaties but I didn't expect that in episode one.I even liked Arya just talking with the soldiers. It showed they just wanted to go home. To go back to their families and for their world to be normal again. Weird, I thought that was Ian McShaneI'm one of those weird guys who actually skip the violence on a rewatch. And I really like this episodeThat scene was a bit ironic when you consider it in the light of the Others = climate change theory.  The academics being the ones to say, "eh, it'll probably be fine, we haven't gone extinct yet" is odd.I agree, but we definitely got some great moments / confirmations last night too.  The Others are invading at Eastwatch, the Valyrians decorated their weapons with dragonglass (probably why VS kills WW), destruction of House Frey by Arya, Arya is going South for vengeance and not north for family (yet), Axis of Evil is happening.  I thought it had a lot of really nice points alongside the expository character sequences.  Was a nice job by PodeswaUnfortunately there are idiots who have the attention span of a sparrow. I doubt THEY read books at all, sounds to me like the moaning is from casual viewers expecting boobs and fighting constantly. This exactly. 

The long gone scenes of brothels and inn visits have been lost. But this episode brings it back in a better way Apparently so. I'd wager that cadaver was Irish, big ass kidneys and liver, little organ. I thought that was one of the more interesting bits of dialogue in the show. It kind of grapples with the whole "senseless violence" argument people levy against GoT and the characters trying to understand the world they live in. Wasn't there a montage when Arya was at the training at the House of Black and White?I don't know what quote your refering to (not saying its not real) but maybe they didn't like the typical 'Eye of the Tiger' style use of them. A montage to build the tone of monotony has a very different feel to one to show progress. A training montage to make something feel exciting which is actually long and boring, while this montage was used to show something long and boring and being long and boring. Interestingly enough, D&D talked about how they filmed the episode with a different scene order in mind, and only later opted to make the Frey scene the cold open.

Personally, I can see why they chose to end with the Dany scene.  After so much anticipation for this season, you don't need the first episode to start on an exciting, aspirational note, but you do need it to end on one.The episode starts with Shall we begin? and then we never see Dany again until episode 2. That might be incredibly funny.It's because the books manage to spend the most time in the least interesting parts of Essos: Slaver's Bay and the Dothraki Sea. I find the Free Cities more interesting and wish GRRM developed them more.Notice how the painting Cersei was standing on had the North unfinished?  Good foreshadowing there.Well said. I agree 100%. 

I was kind of losing interest at the end of last season bc it was so rushed. This ep was clean, no extra garbage scenes. They used the time we've wasted on cock and wine jokes to tell a really good story. Sure, it was the point, but that's almost too big of a task to handle in the hands of anyone less than Tolkien.

That's not to discourage the ambition of it. I love every single season of the show and each book in the series as well. Just noting a point of criticism I have in something I still do truly love.Alexander the Great knew.How'd you figure that Arya was Walder Frey for weeks?

Gonna ignore the frozen ground part, think it's a non-issue, lol.He definitely has guilt too because they asked for assistance and he didn't give it.  On top of it he stole from them.Yeah, I loved the nod to the gravedigger thing. I was getting giddy at that part and my shownly buddies were wondering what I was on about haha.Really? I sort of feel like it was set up really well in the books. Beric adds intrigue, LSH adds personal details (or, you know, I'm hoping). I love Beric on the show now, because I think he's adding some of those details that we're losing out on with no LSH... but I really look forward to her in the books. I REALLY want to know her reaction to certain things (Jon's parentage, Bran's destiny, etc). We don't know what she's like really. We've barely seen herTo be honest, I could watch a spin off of almost any character in Game of Thrones. That's how good their storytelling is.Good cop bad cop dog copBetter Call Sandor? I loved when he just went on and on about how absolutely average and boring Beric was.  Its like, you can say "why the hell are you so special," without being such a dick about it.  Watching it for the third time tonight and these scenes by far are my favorites. Those three are awesome together. Totally. I'm loving this side of the hound. How cool would it be if HE uses the flaming sword?!?plz no spinoffSpeaking of singers and actors from old England, check out Molotov Jukebox. Natalia Tena, who played the wildling Osha, is the front-woman, and they've got hella funky ska beats. I love [this music video] (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Ps4oREka88) in particular.Yeah I feel that but I feel any actor I know kinda does the same thing . Like the high sparrow I couldn't stop thinking of his role in pirates of the Caribbean 
Me too :) Why did I read your comment in Tyrion's voice? Anyway, thanks for your reply. Yeah I noticed Nymeria terrorizing someone, oh well it was a good moment for Arya amidst all the murdering she has been doing.Mastodon, that's the band that showed up at hardhome, but they were wights so it was hard to recognise them on top of being not that popular of a bandI didn't take the 'it's a new song' thing to be a joke in reference to Ed Sheeran. I took it as a nod to book readers since the song is the one Symon Silver Tongue made about Tyrion and Shae. So in universe it is literally a new song. Sigor Ros, not coldplay.  and it was the purple wedding.Mastodon was the other band.Yes, much better to forgive than deal with that. Plus, let's be honest, who gets the castles? People would kill each other over that.Yes, we know that he'll do the right thing when the time comes, but killing those two kids would have been very bad for morale. My complaint is that none of those maesters picked up a cooking chain link. Why are the educated people eating bowl o brown? Surely they understand how cooking works?That was one of my favorite scenes of the episode. You know Arya wanted to go in there and start bleeding some Lannister soldiers, but then they start talking about families, and home, and you get this really great humanizing element for the enemy soldiers. It was a great scene. I think it is somewhat analogous to when scientists first discovered anthropogenic climate change decades ago. Some initially reacted with an attitude that it would be a disaster only if we did nothing. It's once people realized nothing was going to be done that a more widespread attitude of panic/initiative became more common.     
  
It also highlights one of the weaknesses of induction, how do you predict a black swan event like the apocalypse? If you look at history for times that your own species went extinct , you won't find any. But surely at some point all species including your own will go extinct. So how do you figure out what will kill your own species? It's a tough question to figure out, you can't attack the problem as you do other problems, we face the same thing in reality with nuclear weapons and climate change. You only get 1 armageddon.The thing is, he's right from the perspective of anyone who hasn't seen a White Walker.  There's just no evidence they exist, no evidence of a Long Night coming,  and plenty of reasonable explanations for where the stories might come from.

It's just like if you saw Bigfoot today.   > o. The Others are invading at Eastwatch

I don't think you should be so quick to assume that the others are invading Eastwatch. I took what was presented as "we need to head to Eastwatch". I don't know if having the Hound seeing Eastwatch in a vision as well as seeing the army of the dead necessarily means the army of the dead will attack there? I'm betting on the wall coming down. Why go around the wall when it looks cooler on television to bring the whole wall down ;)
Now the next few episodes will show those events unfold... However I don't believe that every Valyrian steel weapon has dragonglass adorned on it. Does longclaw? In the show we at least see Jon kill an Other without obsidian.Now the next few episodes will show those events unfold... However I don't believe that every Valyrian steel weapon has dragonglass adorned on it. Does longclaw? In the show we at least see Jon kill an Other without obsidian.I kind of get that impression too, so that's why I try to convince every show-only fan I know to at least try reading the books. There's more to the series than tits and swords.i think the problem people have with that scene is that it made it into the show instead of tyrion telling jaime of cersei's infidelity, which really jumpstarts jaime's character development.The montage reminded me of the repetitive montage in Requiem for a Dream when they focus on the mother's life. I thought it could have been better if maybe it finishes with the dragons flying over Dragonstone and like in the finale, you hear them screaming in the air and it fades to black as Dany reaches the shore, or she could have sat down on the throne and said 'shall we begin?'. To me it would be ominous.  Kind of like how you keep hearing about Stannis in book one but you never see the motherfucker.  He's just a constant looming threat.

I would even say keep her out until episode 3.  Then start ep 3 with a massive fucking invasion of the crownlands.It says a lot when Tyrion (the statistical main character and often the comic relief of the series) didn't have a single line.Tolkien had two or three POVs, not 20'Member the Mereenese Knot?

Alexander the Great 'members Because all those frey's had to get there. A message had to be sent out, read and plans made to travel to the twins. In the logistical time it took to assemble the entire house (minus all of the children... yeah no kids at that dinner so house frey is still up and running like the boltons still are). In the meantime while all the frey's showed up from all around, Arya would have to play as Walder Frey. Her carving up and baking a pie in a matter of hours was more believable than this plot-filler scene.

 This episode was poor show in general. Loose logic, contradictory scenes with previous season scenes. to be perfectly honest i didn't even realise that they were the same father and daughter - when he had doubts about using the house my first thoughts were "wow, surely white walkers haven't made it south of the wall already?" but then you realise that it's little sally and her dad curled up in the corner and i went to pieces... it was awful. 

something i secretly hope for is that sandor is becoming more gentle for a greater purpose - sansa. in season 1 ned tells her he will make her a better match with someone gentle and that person might just turn out to be sandor. there's a lot of evidence for a potential relationship between the two e.g. king robert telling ned to "get her a dog, she'll be happier" etc so, here's hoping haha.[deleted]We do. She's a very angry zombie who doesn't speak. Surely GRRM would have hinted at something else if there was something else. Sand snakes?[All these programs seem to be about corrupt police dogs...](https://youtu.be/YCQMzbe46To?t=3s)Can you imagine him calling a Bingo game? I can't remember what letter it was, I think it was the S1 finale, or penultimate (just started using that word) episode, but Jimmy kept getting a letter over and over again til he flipped... I think it was "I"? Now I'm imagining the Hound in that scene... and it's somehow even better.

Or the montage where he's trying to get fired from Davis & Mayne, with the tacky suits and the wild wacky inflatable arm man... Sandor doing the same thing. 

Damn, that would be greatI wonder if Sandor was talking about Ned Stark when he said one of the better men he knew had his head cut off. That's our Sandor!

If he wasn't a dick about it, it just wouldn't seem right. It's what he doesSandor using a flaming sword against his brother in Cleganebowl.The Lightbringer?What if...what if Beric gives his power to Sandor instead of LSH?If this happens I hope it's because Thoros or Beric rig his sword that way to force him to overcome his fear!We need one or at least I do since I came so late to the ASIOF party.Directed by David Spinoff and David B. WeissIt's different, though. 

The HS is an actor playing a character; Ed Sheeran was a popstar playing himself.I didn't pick up that it was a song from the book. The melody threw me (a bit too "pretty") so I assumed that it was a song put together for the scene. Thanks for pointing that out.This is what I assumed too, I had vaguely heard about Ed Sheeran before but I didn't know what he looked like so just assumed it was more a: 'This is a new song based on more current world events than, say, Rains of Castermere'.You're both right. Sigur Ross appeared in the purple wedding, and the dude from Coldplay was one of the musicians in the red wedding. Or would they? Yes they are castles, but they are castles that are going to be directly hit if Eastwach falls. I believe most of the North is united around the idea that they need to stick together, but are they all 100% that the dead are coming and they can breach the wall? It would be easy to want a castle if you were confident the wall will hold, but not so much if you weren't sure, or were aware of the state of the Watch. And do you trust the Wildings to know how to run and hold a castle on the front lines?

I think there might be a hint of 'prove that you are loyal by maintaining these castles that will be most vulnerable in case the Others breach the wall' in Jon's leniency. I LOVED that scene. Some people hated this ep but I loved it because we are seeing the consequences going on in the lives of people like those soldiers or the man and his daughter the Hound stole the money from. But he is wise enough to believe Sam, the point is that a Long Night happened before and it was fine in the end, so even if there's another one coming it's unlikely to be as apocalyptic as Sam implies.yup, no real proof yet. and not many have seen them either.Good point, idk.  I figured maybe they would just break the wall then invade at Eastwatchif it did, it might not be adorned anymore since the hilt/pommel were redone in AGOTI dunno.  I think that is leading to the idea that maybe it just became standard to meld in the dragonglass with steel to make VS.  Longclaw would then have this dragonglass as part of its makeup, allowing him to kill Others.I get that, but I think one of the show runners' choices was to have her pass the throne and go straight to the war room. I can see that as a reflection of how she didn't show up on Dragonstone to sit down. Ahhh yes, the metric of true storytelling.The entirety of Tolkien's legendarium involves the creation of multiple languages, mythologies, and even culture within the work itself. It's a monumental creation in the history of literature.Why are there multiple memberberries references in this post?Arya/Walder mentioned that the feast was held within the same week as the previous feast so I don't think it's hard pressed to assume she laid low for a few days. Honorable and just to a fault? He and the BWB stole the money that the Hound won from the hands tourney, and it was a large amount. Beric is no Ned Stark Catelyn was one of the most intelligent characters, bro. She understood before Ned did that he couldn't reject the king's offer of Hand. She don't speak much, but she remembers.> She's a very angry zombie who doesn't speak.

Except... she does. Have you even read AFFC?You are making me sweat here man.Sandor: Let me ask you, do any of you old bastards know what a Dornish sunroof is?It was a B because his brother betrayed him and he couldn't stop thinking about it.  But yeah I would watch the shit out of that!If you just started using penultimate, you will be super excited about antepenultimate!!! I wish I got more chances to use it myself.Yes and the hanged man was the septon Ray played by Ian mcshane. Sandor: If you have something nice to say, figure out a way to still be a dick.G E T H Y P EOh shit, I forgot about LSH altogether. If the book ever comes out, I wonder if we'll see the hound meeting and hanging out with her instead? I find that even harder to believe.Thoros has the power, though, no?well he was sorta kinda baptised in fire by gregor as a kid, maybe lord of light will just start favouring sandor as a champion now cause he's into that kind of shitI feel like him looking in the flames last night was a "face your fear" kind of moment.They're going to die and he's going to carry their spirits because 'they were my friends'He's playing a Lannister soldier who can sing well. 

I get the difference but if I can imagine an actor is playing a specific role despite the fact I have seen them play many roles I can get over Ed. It's not like he had lines where his name was Ed . Of Monsters and Men were also in season 6Certainly. The remaining Karstarks and Umbers have to be very aware that if Jon doesn't do something to them, someone else will. I thought that was a really good point, it ended last time and it will end this time.

It's wise yet also foolish at the same time, it ended because of people's actions and sacrifices. Maybe one of those actions this time is Sam getting access to the books, it's such a small event in the big scheme of things but potentially vital. Maybe last time all the small things happened how they should, doesn't mean it'll be that way again.Even so, I don't think having dragonglass on the non-blade section of the sword would allow it to kill Others, I'd think it would have to be on/in the blade itself.I was reading another thread about this and the thing that bothers me is since obsidian is so brittle, it theoretically would make steel terrible for blades if melted within it. The Valyrians may have countered this with blood magic or something, but it still seems dubious to me. Is the blending of dragon glass with steel the lost art form of creating VS? Because a small handful of smiths can re-work VS, but no one can create it anymore, right?If anything id say the 20 POVs are the reason GRRM can't finish the series. He's too busy thinking about whats going through some random persons head instead of the main fucking characters and the plotand one that is not easy or pleasurable to read as a whole. I tried...cause /r/asoiaf 'members.Very hard pressed, someone had to bark the orders for a second feast, call back the members who returned home, cover up questions about a missing steward. That scene ( along with so many others) were stretched so thin in total logic it was painful.Catelyn...intelligent. Never seen those 2 words in the same  sentence before.Catelyn was always two steps ahead of herself. By the time she got where she was thinking about she was already somewhere else. Not dumb. Not smart. Only a human doing their best in a chaotic situation. Love her! She also kidnapped Tyrion because she thought he tried to have Bran killed. I don't think she's stupid but I certainly don't think she's at the top of the list either Alright, barely speaks. And exhibited nothing while speaking that showed she had any character at all beyond anger. Greyworm?Ah yes! It was "B". B, for brother. Betrayal. Yeah, there we go. Thanks. I've only watched that season of BCS twice, I need to bring it up to GOT levels and watch it another 40 times I guessAntepenultimate was my good luck word for written essays back in high school. If I could figure out a way to use it, I always got the highest marks possible. (fuck yeah, 5s all the way on my AP Lit and Comp exam!) So, who's the one that shat himself to death?Sandor sounds like everybody I know.Iirc both LSH and the 'Grave digger' are in the riverlands. The BWB intermingle with small folk frequently so I think it's possible they meet. He certainly has [the touch](https://youtu.be/AZKpByV5764).They both have the power. Thoros uses it to revive Beric, while Beric eventually uses it to revive LSH. The difference is Thoros keeps his life while Beric trades his in.Champion???

*in the distance, airhorns being to sound*Jon and Sansa's back-and-forth could be seen as some political theater as well, illustrating that there are plenty of Northern houses who haven't forgiven them, and that it is only by Jon's grace that they remain. It could be assumed that Sansa and Jon already came to a consensus, they just wanted to play it out to send a message. IIRC, Sansa saw that in King's Landing, so I don't think that would be a stretch. 

Hopefully Jon will see the use in Sansa's experience soon enough, because Mel ain't going to be able to jetpack back to Winterfell fast enough next time he's Caesar-ed. It was a terrible point. "Someone took care of it last time, someone will take care of it this time too" is insane when you know basically no one believe the problem even exists. think there are any implications for Oathkeeper and Widows Wail? if they were weren't reforged the "right" way, they may not be any use against WW?Yeah.  It doesn't seem logical, but spellbinding swords with fictitious material might not need to (not being snarky) imoPotentially sealed with some sort of Valyrian magic, but yeah, that would be my guessI don't know about easy, but the pleasure you derive from the reading is totally a subjective experience.The Freys forgot...the North didn't.I have no idea what you mean with the missing steward. She gathered the frey family members who were home already since they live there. The show of course is not going to film every single instance that led up to the poisoning. You're supposed to fill in the blanks yourself. I prefer it that way actually. "Show don't tell" Maybe you should do some reading. That might help things. Agreed, Catelyn is one of the best characters in the books. I really don't understand the hate against her. Actually, that was one of her best moments.

Okay, here's the deal of what happaned. Catelyn is on her way back to Winterfell. She and Ser Rodrik stop at the Inn. Tyrion, on his way back to King's Landing from the North, stops at the same inn. At the same exact time. You know this part.

But, the deal is, Catelyn could NOT let Tyrion know. She tried her best to hide herself. Obviously, Tyrion being the clever little bugger he is, recognizes her at once. He begins asking why the Lady of Winterfell would be so far down south. Shouldn't she be with her comatose son? 

Catelyn could not let the Lannisters know that she was in KL. That would endanger everyone. Taking Tyrion into custody was the only option allowed to her at that point. One of my favourite details in the books is how LSH cried while grasping Robb's crown, so I'd like to believe there's more to her character than just revenge.She may develop more. Maybe not. I assume she has a purpose. Would follow 100%. Even the penis cutting part.Maybe someone he served in battle with. A friend he had at his father's castle before he moved to King's Landing. Cant think of anyone in the series who has explicitly shat themselves to death in a field. Closest thing would probably be Dany.Tywin, but not in a field...Gotcha, been awhile since I read it.I'm sure if anyone asked, Sansa would say something like that.But he'll be right in the end, he and millions other will just go on with their lives while the heroes save the world.And if you discourage one of the few actually doing somethng about it from taking any further action.Did GRRM ever explicitly state that Valyrian steel can be used to kill the Others, or was it only shown in Hardhome? Right, the magic could be used as a kind of cop out... Who knows, maybe we'll find out one way or another how it's really made. Absolutely, the Silmarillion is the single book I've re-read more than any other. I have enjoyed it immensely from the first time to the last. I remember I kept a notebook the first time through to help organize my thoughts and keep track of names, families, etc, with the help of the appendix. I also realize that is not for everyone, but damnit do I love it. No blanks left, Lothar Frey, one of the sons in the pie, was the steward of the twins, the place they were. He was in charge of running the castle and getting things to Lord Frey's liking, including organizing events. Now Arya could've face swapped with him as well, but she hadn't met him previously and probably wouldn't know well enough to see he walked with a limp and what kind of limp. All this was shown in the show, including him in the pie. I just find it hilarious thinking Arya had to be running around like a 3 stooges skit, swapping faces and clothes, shouting out orders, then fools everyone to their last breaths. Just like how she commandeered the kitchen long enough to prepare a pie crust, chop up some bodies, assemble a mixture of foods to bind with the human parts, then bake it and let it sit to cool. Lol. I've reread the books at least once a year for 5 years now. I dont think my opinion is gonna change at this point. Taking Tyrion, releasing Jaime, trusting Littlefinger. Those are just off the top of my head. I'm sure I could find more minor instances of her doing thevworst possible thing. And tbh I wouldn't make a big deal about it except...she looks at everyone else like theyre stupid. So I guess I can throw in blind arrogance as well.The part where she releases Jaime is what did it for me. It's just such a ludicrously bad decision. I get it. I hated her at first. She fucks up a lot. On rereads you understand how right she is and how impossible her situation is. Still she is super judgmental. It's understandable but it annoyed me. A good character makes you feels things though. Good or bad. My bad I guess I just didn't remember the whole story

She also tried to get stannis to join up with Robb which would have obviously helped everyone, even if it was obviously futile I can't understand why people think she's just an angry zombie. Her last moments were traumatizing to the point that any normal person who survived it would be angry and lusting for the blood of traitors. She also had her throat slit so that explains why she doesn't speak much. It's just the normal human reaction to the circumstances she's been subjected to with the caveat of her being a fire wight or something.She's actively searching for Arya and the Brotherhood even started an orphanage under her leadership. She's not just a mindless revenge fueled zombie imo. Plus she actually gets shit done unlike Beric. They probably removed her from the show because is Arya is taking her role. /r/nocontextThe show "confirmed" it; in the books we're going off the line between Sam and Jon: "dragon steel...valayrian steel?"Taking Tyrion was one of the smartest things she did. It was the only route available to her. 

Jaime was released not because she trusted him, but because she trusted his brother. Tyrion swore that he would release Sansa and Arya should Jaime was returned to him. 

And why are you bashing her for trusting Littlefinger? EVERYONE trusts Littlefinger. He makes it his goal to get all chummy with everyone in KL. And on top of that, they have a shared history. Baelish is like a little brother to her. They grew up together. It's like saying you should not trust your own family. 

She rarely does the worst possible thing, from her perspective. Yes, she has faults, but plenty of our criticisms of her are from us having an all knowing perspective that she lacks. It's called a tragedy. 

You may read the books, but it is quite apparent you do not think on what you are reading. I agree with this so hard. I remember hating her chapters until book 3- I had a crazy newfound love for her. Rewatching from s1, even with her animosity towards Jon, I still sympathize so much with her. She's great. I think it's a bit of misogny against Cat, and people expecting their heroes to be perfect and without flaw. You would think that ASOIAF, out of all the fandoms, would be the ones that would ENCOURAGE flawed characters. But nope, any mistakes = dumb, stupid, worthless character. She had to try, though. She couldn't just give up. Cat did what she could, but the scene was important as it pretty much signified the entirety of ACOK to the audience. Arya and Beric I think. Taking Tyrion was an impulsive, illogical decision.
Releasing Jaime basically killed all chances of negotiation for Robb.
Varys doesn't trust Littlefinger. Also just because "everyone" trusts him doesn't make it smart.I agree with the misogyny a bit. Maybe more than a bit. Here is a lady who thinks she's so smart and she's always thinking about how the men around her are dumb. My fragile male ego didn't like that too much. Especially since she didn't seem so smart herself. But she isn't just judgmental of men, but also women too. Some are too girlish. Brienne is too manly. Catelyn is probably one of the most complicated characters in the books. It's not easy to take on a first read. But once you acquire the taste it becomes really fucking delicious. I'm hoping she (her living character at least) is a precursor to where Sansa and Cersei's characters are going. Cersei wasn't too complicated in AFFC and Sansa is just now finding her strides as "not the victim". It'll be nice to see them become real players. It's gotta be the long lost Brightroar, the Lannister's family Valyrian steel sword. Two attempts to retrieve it have gone badlyBrightroarSansa Stark. Possibly betrayed by Littlefinger. Cersei blames her and Tyrion for Joffrey's murder. I think the Tyrion thing won't come to climax until the end of the series. Sansa's story, however, is hard to predict. With her telling Jon she learned a lot from Cersei and him saying it sounded like she admired her, I won't be surprised if their stories cross again.Some part of a dead Dragon. 

A trophy that shows he can truly harm a Targaryen.Anyone think it could be Dragonbinder?Since Euron's gifts are always poision, and the Martell's/Sand Snakes are known for using poison, I think it's fair to guess the head's of one or more of them could be the gift.The next scene was at the Citadel in Oldtown and in the books it seems like he his going to be sacking Oldtown.  I'm not sure if anything there would impress Cersei enough but that is where my mind first jumped to, especially with the ordering of the scenes.I'm surprised no one has mentioned Brightroar yet. It's a good plot device to have someone go to Old Valyria looking for it. I thought it was pretty clear that he's bringing her PatchfaceI think it's clear that Cersei believes he's talking about Tyrion, but Euron is obviously demented as hell, so I could see it being something important to the plot (i.e. Horn of Joramun), but not imminently important to Cersei. I believe it was a misdirect by the showrunners. It's a callback to dragonbinder from the books. I think the show watchers will assume he means he's going to head to dragonstone and either kill someone or steal a dragon. Realistically however I think he will head to Dorne and smash the sandsnakes. People will be surprised and at the same time happy to see that plot line end.  
  
Presumably we have 1-2 episodes until Jon meets Dany on Dragonstone, so I can't see Euron going there also to muddle that plot. Yara or Olenna.I just read a theory that it's Gendry, last remaining Baratheon. If that was really him at Oldtown, that would send Euron there giving some legitimacy to the Apocalypse Theory. Will we see a Kraken? Probably not but a little part of me is holding out hope.I think the gift is going to be Ellaria Sand, since she is the one who plotted and successfully killed Myrcella.Horn of Winter.  
  
They create chaos to kill everyone else off I think he is going to move east and come upon the Targaryen fleet led by Yara and Theon.  He will win or weaken them and take Yara and the Sand Snakes captive.

I think it is far to late in the show for the Dragon Horn to be a thing, If the Kingsmoot plot happened in an earlier season like 4 or 5, then mayhaps.Either he's bringing her 
1. Tyrion
2. The dragon horn- which I had assumed he already had, based on the books
3. A dragon, captured by the horn (which he may or may not already have) After seeing the all-new Euron, probably a [jar of dirt](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gRcj6CAhe7s).
I want it to be the the horn that can summon Krakens, but I doubt it will be:/Calling it now: melisandre thought she destroyed Joramuns horn but the real one was actually the horn Sam found on the fist.

Now he's brought that to old town with him.

Euros will sack the city and somehow end up with the horn.

Once he's got it, and it's powers to bring down the wall, he'll give it to cersei, whom we already know is willing to destroy anything to hurt those against her.

Her enemies to the north would certainly be harmed if the wall fell, and that's just the kind of short term thinking we know her forit will be Ellaria. Of course he won´t kill her and she is not going to die this season. HBO already changed the script just for the actress to play a bigger role.A few of the sand snakes, possibly Yara too I'm betting on. One or all of the Sand Sneks.Dragonstone was empty, no Lannisters anywhere. May be they left it open as a challenge for Euron, to battle it out. Cersie does imply that she's learnt quite a bit from her father for 40 years. It's like she wants to face off Dany without involving any Lannister army.[deleted]The gift has to be something worth less to Euron than the potential worth of marriage/alliance to Cersei. So it is most likely Ellaria, the murderer of her daughter. I doubt it is something dragon related for the reason he would want to keep that to himself.The gift is obviously his big cock.Yara is a gift, most likely. Euron will probably destroy Yara's fleet. Also Sand Snakes, he can kill Ellaria Sand - she is responsible for Mircella's death.

Actually, as I am thinking, delivering Ellaria to Cersei would be more rewarding, since Cersei wants revenge."I am the gift."

-Tyrion LannisterForgive me if I'm wrong but, Dragonstone sits at the mouth of Blackwater Bay, so isn't Euron's fleet trapped by Yara's, giving him no choice but to engage her? Or is the opening into the Narrow Sea too wide to defend? (Also I guess maybe Euron could've somehow dipped in and out fast enough to never cross paths with her, but that seems unrealistic).     A live dragon.  There has to be something to even the sides.  Currently it looks like the Lannisters are about to be curb stomped.  A dragon taken from Daenerys and an impending breach of the Wall might not only goad the Unburnt north to the Wall and the Starks, but it would allow Cersei to consolidate power in the south, taking Highgarden and Dorne out of the equation.  (I do not think that a single dragon could wipe Dorne in the books - but this is the show - and that kind of corner cutting is something I have become accustomed to.)Perhaps a strange horn said to be able to compel dragons.I thought Euron is gonna bring Cersei a dragon. He has means of capturing one i think!!!Definitely the sand snakes.I thought it was pretty self explanatory that he's going to go attack Dany's fleet (which will almost definitely be the big sea battle we see in the trailers) and bring Cersei back Tyrion's head.I think there were pictures from filming that showed what his gift is going to be.
[Spoilers What the Pictures Showed](/s "There's pictures of Ellaria and Tyene being pulled by Euron on a horse through the streets of King's Landing")It's important that it's not just a gift, but a priceless gift. So something very important to her. This makes me think Tyrion and not just killing some people that would be helpful to her. I really hope it's not the horn. That kind of thing seem silly to introduce in the show.The Reach.

When Cersei and Jaime are in the map room and she wants to know what the plan is, he says they can't do anything if they can't feed the men and horses. He mentions the Reach has all the grain and livestock.

Seems like the most valuable thing Euron can offer would be the ability for Cersei to supply her armies in the wars to come.

That, and IIRC, the Ironborn are raiding Oldtown at the end of ADWD so it would mesh the stories together well.We are meant to think it's Tyrion, but it will prob be a sand snake.A lot of people are saying he will bring her Tyrion, but how exactly is that supposed to work? Seeing as he's her hand that would make him the 2nd best guarded guy in her entourage. If he could capture the hand you would think he would just go the whole mile and bring her Danny's head. Not like Tyrion is going to be captured in battle or anything.I think the gift is a person. Who I don't know. Logical me says if it's not a person it's the dragon horn. If it is a person illogical me says Gendry. He was in the ocean after all...So let's face it. From the trailers, there will be a massive naval battle in which Euron wins and protects kings landing. The victory will be Eurons gift.

Edit: part of the gift will likely be ellaria sandI'm pretty sure the gift is not the horn. And, if that turns out to be the case, I would assume that confirms that the dragon horn is likely a red herring in the books as well. Because if it IS real, well...that seems like a pretty damn important thing to be cut from the TV adaptation. Poison, Eurons Gift are poisons.I don't think its the horn. If Euron brings her this horn and says hey it can kill/control a dragon, why would Cersei believe him? Does she even believe in the dragons in the first place? Cersei is more practical than that.The horn? I thought he meant the actual dragon. I'm really interested where they are going with Euron...
He seems really powerful, especially in the books...Whatever it is, he's going to Oldtown. Didja see the long shot of Hightower? Soon you'll see it engulfed by Kraken tentacles. That mofo's gonna summon a Kraken. When Tyrion first appears to Daenerys in Daznak's Pit in GOT, he says to her that "I am the gift," which makes me think that might be Euron's goal.I think he meant Tyrion's head, but if he does introduce the dragon horn, I think that would be great!I assumed he would bring her Tyrion. "You killed your brother" 
"And you should try it sometime!" I think his gift will be one of Cersei's enemies, like the sand snakes or Yara.I was thinking he was going to use the dragon horn to bring her a dragon. Tyrions head I assumed he meant he was going to bring her the heads of her enemies.We've got footage of Yara+Ellaria boogie time, and a big sea battle, could be Dany sends her to Dorne for allies, they start to get it on and get interrupted by Euron? Yeah this is where I'd put my money as well. Plus they had a bit of banter in S4. I think there might be a small chance that it is Olenna.Step 1: cut a hole in a boxIf he can do that, then why he didn't bring the whole pack?Cannot wait to see that.No, it could actually be, that Tyrion gets captured in battle. If you watch the Episode 2 Preview, Tyrion (I believe) says, that they have to go NOW for Kings Landing. Could be that they try it and Euron ambushes them. I think he's going to go in search of Tyrion, see Dany, and change his mind about who 'The most beautiful woman in the world' is.Seems more plausible than a magic horn that can control dragons.So Daenerys decides to hit Kings Landing with her fleet and Euron comes in to save the day for Cersei?Did you hear the deep horn start playing in the music during that part? I felt it had to be intentional.I have a feeling the horn is going to be cut from the show. I remember they showed a horn the Night's Watch found at the Fist of the First Men in one of the earlier seasons. I thought for sure that would be the horn of Joramun, but the horn never came back up. Thus, I think they aren't going to delve into which horn is which and what not. I think whoever the other 2 dragon riders are, if there is even a 2nd and 3rd dragon rider, will just establish a bond without needing to use the horn to gain control.Have to remember that it could be real and simply perhaps ineffective eventually in the books, and that's why it was cut out, rather than it being a red herring.Euron is German?Betting on a weapon from the citadel. Perhaps, something to kill dragons, perhaps a dragon poison.More and more people are reporting to Cersei about Dany, her army and her dragons so surely she has to believe in them now. Well the horn wasn't exactly ordinary. I forget the exact passage but I remember it being gigantic and black and wrapped in Valyrian steel. And they had that crew member that blew into it died after a bone chilling and uneasy sound. Then he exhaled out is last breath as a cloud of smoke.

I honestly don't think it's going to be the horn, but I think it would definitely be convincing thats it's a big deal.Aww. Thanks for poking a giant hole in my theory!Me also.  The only thing worth a crap in this world at this point. Dragons.  Would make sense if the Maesters have Dragonbinder, tooIn the books, maybe. In the show? I don't think there's been any evidence of this guy being more than just another ironborn.Totally agree. I think he's going after Tyrion. 
Whoahh good catch! Very possible. I think that was a nod to Jaime not tyrion. Cause Jamie clearly hated himOh dang that's a good spot. So do you think he just sneaks in and snatches Tyrion from dragonstone? The show already established that the castle is penetrable in small numbers.If he could get to Yara he could just kill Kelly-C at the same time and end the whole thing. I assume the same snakesthat'd be doing all of us a favorHe came to her saying Yara was *his* enemy, though. Whatever side she fights for, her head is much more a gift to himself than Cersei. 
This was my thought also. The show mentioning how grand his fleet is, I have to assume it will be a battle in the sea between both Dany's and Euron's ships on the next or following episode.I'm with you. Pretty sure it's this. One of the season previews kind of gave it away. Asha, ahem Yara, and Theon look pretty horrified by ships burning from dragon fire. 

Enron is going to get the horn and bring Cersei a dragon. I think it's definitely this. Noone's head is going to do anything for Cersei at this point. She is pretty fucked. A dragon would not only redeem Euron's terrible character (hell even to Jaime) but it would level the playing field on Westeros by itself.

Also, if you listen to the music when he begins talking about the gift and as he exits, a deep horn starts playing. I might be looking into that too much, but I heard it loud and clear.I feel like they would've shown the horn by now if that was the case.cuz hes' just gonna casually go to dragonstone and kill him? might as well kill Dany too and just end the whole conflict while there. That was my thought....and I'm worried... :(I assumed he was talking about Ellaria for killing Myrcella.Which enemies though? Dorne? Daenerys/Tyrion is the closest threat he can get to by sea, but I figured if he ever saw Dany in person with her dragons, he would shift gears and go for her instead of Cersei.2: Put your junk in that boxThe argument that occams razor has taken over the plot is still applicable. The show writers are taking the simplest route with the overall plot in order to wrap everything up. Not necessarily, he could just intercept her fleet where ever they get sent. I really don't think she's going to hit Kings Landing yet, we see her army in the Westerlands all throughout the trailers.The dragonrider theory is most likely bullshit. We never heard about it in the show, and the show wouldnt cut such an important happening out. Also Im sure, that aleast 1 dragon dies.

Azor Ahai is mentioned thoOr it's eventual effect, such as a dragon dying or the captured dragon killing someone important, could be reached a different way in the show. After all an entire Targaryen invasion is cut out of the show, likely because its results can be achieved with Dany.No, Ironborn.They got something. Euron and the faceless men are headed there in the books tooHe just showed up, give him timeAnd in the following scene after that dialogue, the screen cut to both of them (Cersei and Jamie). I wonder if she was reminded of the Valonqar prophecy at that moment.yeah he just needs 20 good men and he can destroy her entire fleet and get tirion easilyEither that or reek starts reeking againYara is still team-anti-cersei though. Well, Euron's gifts are poisonedMy issue with this is that I don't think Euron is stupid enough to try and fight someone with three dragons using wooden ships.Doesnt the fire come from some sort of catapult, that can throw fire at other ships? Does the ship silence have something similar to that? 

I can remember, that the ships, that attacked Dany back in Essos, had something similar...Not necessarily. It'd be quite the surprise for folks who only watch the TV show and will make things much more suspenseful as compared to basically what looks like a walkover for Dany if there's a battle on land.If he can kill Ellaria he would kill Theon and Yara since thats who he wants to kill primarily so I don't think he will kill EllariaThis sounds most plausible to me, TBH.I was thinking he could potentially mean Lady Olenna, which I think Cersei will refuseHis whole speech was about being betrayed by his family and wanting to kill them. He made that connection with cersei so I think he was implying he would bring her Tyrion. Dany is so close to KL that I doubt Euron can move his ships anywhere without meeting a part of her fleet. I mean the whole strategic value of Dragonstone is that it holds the mouth to Blackwater Bay, and has a good haven to support the navy.

And I don't think Euron can go over to Dany when Yara&Theon already made an alliance, he would either give up his rights or fight, which he's doing with the help of the Lannisters.

And looking at the preview, there will be a naval battle which will probaly happen in Blackwater Bay, Euron's fleet is made up of Ironmen who spent most of their life fighting on water, while Dany's fleet exists out of: Unsullied, who are trained to fight as a Phalanx formation (or something like that) in an open field as a group. Dothraki, who even though looked a bit weird in S6E10 are still supposed to be horrible on ships. The Dornish ships, who are also known to have no strong navy on their own (Nymeria burning her own ships), and who still has an old blood feund with the people of the reach. The Tyrell/Redwyne do have a strong fleet and people to man it, and the Ironborn who have a strong navy as well. The question mainly is who to man the Slaver's fleet, I'd guess captains from the Arbor and Iron Islands with Unsullied as a fighting force.

I mean honestly, Dany's army is pretty OP on mainland warfare, I'd guess the battle between Euron and Dany will destroy at least half her forces, if not some dragons, so the odds are more even for Cercei and Dany.
Sandsnakes gon' die.3: Make her open the box.Gift is the German word for poison.The books did a good job of setting him up for it. If he does in the show it will like GOT jumped the shark.Valonqar is not even mentioned in the serie, just the death of her childrens and I think some lady stealing the most precious thing of her The Martell's/Sandsnakes are known for using poison. So technically, not wrong in saying Euron's gift could be the head of one of them.You're making this sound really cool now when I'm trying to keep my expectations lowI was thinking either he's going to pillage oldtown or something since the archmaester were talking about how without the maesters the people would not remember anything. I think he then fights the Targaryen armada when they are enroute to King's Landing with the combined Lannister fleet and he fucks them since the Ironborn are superior sea fighters and the dothraki are basically useless on water. Then Euron will be forced to retreat because Dany will stop being retarded and finally get her Dragons to listen to her to save the rest of her fleet.Killing Ellaria would get him close to Cersei, which gives him an army to help fight Theon and YaraBut, do we even know if Euron knows about the feud between Cercei and the  Sandsnakes?

I dont think soI agree, especially because a prediction is that the "gift" Cersei returns in a couple episodes is going to be dead Ellaria sent back to Dorne. Definitely sounded like Tyrion to me too, with the online about killing a brother. Seemed like both a dig at Jaime and a reference to Cersei's number one target. Especially considering the earlier conversation about Tyrion. Or perhaps some of the people that were responsible for killing her daughter... like Ellaria and the Sand Snakes? :oThe show has gotten around stuff like that in the past by saying different scenes are at different times. So maybe Euron sailed out before Dany sailed in. 

Or we could have an epic naval battle shortly. SAND SNAKES RULE! WE'RE THE SAND SNAKES! THAT'S US! AND WE RULE!It is known.Why would he want to go to oldtown?Yes I just can't see how he can without engaging their armada, since we see yara and ellaria lesbian kissing in the preview Hiss with my sistersBecause he read the books?No fucking clue, I was thinking to hurt the reach, Oldtown is the richest city in westeros and it's the only major city of the reach on the coast soMaybe Cersei keeps Ellaria prisoner in an attempt to stop Dorne's rebellion, but she's freed at some point?

Currently Ellaria and the Snakes are still in Dorne, so she's not protected by Dany's fleet.I think even with their naval superiority, he'll have a hard time against the dragons. You have to keep in mind that literally everything on a ship is flammable, and it just takes the dragons hovering safely above arrow reach and emptying their fire to finish them off. Even with only 3 dragons, they'd be defeated pretty easily. In the 7e2 preview she is with Dany, Theon, Varys, Yara , Olenna, Tyrion, Ellaria, Greyworm, and the rest of that crew at Dragonstone though. Maybe later in the episode they aren't all together but they are in at least one pointyeah my logic behind that is I think dany won't be able to control her dragons well and they will already cause a shit ton of damage to her fleet before the dragons force them to withdraw. I neglected to watch the preview before theorizing, my bad.You straight, I thought the same thing until I saw the preview earlier today. My money is still on him bringing back someone in that group though. A crazy leader who can't dress well, says loads of crazy statements, thinks every other leader will love them, and has the undying support from a group of people that the rest of the country doesn't care for.

That reminds me of someone in real life...Maybe ritualistic drowning kills braincells. Explains everything about the ironborn.Euron = PUCKI just don't get why, having sailed his entire armada to King's Landing and witnessing there truly was no Lannister navy, hence why Cersei needed him, he didn't just sack the shit out of King's Landing and take it for himself. There was literally nothing from stopping him from forcing landings and surprise attacking them. You know, why Jaime was so pissed that Cersei let him come in the first place.

And the idea that Euron sailed by the completely empty Dragonstone, which he had to to get to King's Landing's harbour, and didn't take it doesn't even need to be explained as to how ridiculous that is. You can't tell me Dragonstone is super valuable and strategic and then repeatedly show me that nobody has made a move on it.Idk, sounds more like justification for a poorly written character than anything. I don't think there's any underlying cleverness to his character, he was just lazily designed (for the show only obviously).Nope. Show Euron is redeeming himself. That scene where he walks up the throne steps then side eyes the mountain... that was book Euron then he does it again peaking. He is crazy but a strategic genius in the book and his I don't give a fuck attitude will win over Cersei. I figured in the book they would hook up at some point. So... he's Trump?Book Euron is not just a half wit like most iron born. He's seen things nobody would ever see, learnt things that many would only dream off. He's an intelligent and devious man with villainy coursing through his veins.

I can't for the life of me work out why a Crew of character designers and writers of the show. Would miss out on such a brilliant opportunity to bring to life one of the most intriguing and brilliant characters I have ever read about. Instead they throw us this half ass effort. Nobody watching this show thinks anything off him. He's just Theon's egotistical and stupid uncle who hasn't got a chance of winning anything.

When I read about book Euron. I sit there thinking... you know what... he may actually pull it off... he may actually throw a few spanners in the works and come out winning or at the least is definitely a big contender. 

I also think cutting out Victarian was a big mistake. Victarians interactions with his brother, his fears and his opinions help shape Euron into the incredible character he is. I liked how at one point, Euron still put a foot on the steps and looked directly at the Mountain while talking. He isnt stupid enough to try his hand against Gregor but he is still confident and crazy enough to not completely back awayI actually was a fan of Euron last season, but am starting to back off that train after last night's episode.

He's getting to be too much, with nothing to really show for for it.I was impressed with Euron this episode. His arrogance was amusing.i agree. loved the season 7 euron and i hope we get more of this off-the-hinge, charming maniac. he may be the final wedge between jaime and cersei in the show.I don't know, I never buy into "but he's supposed to be stupid, that's what makes him great" argument. Usually it's just a poorly written character, which I think is the case. Euron has some role to play in the grand scheme of things and I think the writers are genuinely trying to make him a menacing villain.I still maintain that showEuron is a blend of bookEuron and Victarion, leaning towards more Victarion. He's an arrogant meathead who is utterly without mercy or remorse. Hell, in the Cersei scene in this episode he used the phrase "the most beautiful woman in the world", which is exactly the phrase Victarion uses in the books to describe his own conquest of Dany.Everyone is angry that it's not book Euron, but it's not book ASOIF anymore either. You shouldn't feel betrayed by the show anymore because they're literally different stories now. It's like being pissed off for how Euripides treats the character of Odysseus verses how he is portrayed by Homer. Show Euron is not book Euron. His story line isn't the same as the (mind you, still unwritten) book Euron storyline. He will be, by necessity of plot, medium, and time, doing different things for different reasons.

Simple logic dictates changes in his motivation and character.

They are different entities, stop crying because Martin won't finish his series, the show has, literally and figuratively, moved on.I still tend to think that Euron is a rare case of the show horribly miscasting an actor...whatever the guy is going for he's still missing the mark with me. 

Nope.

Euron in the books is like some kind of apocalyptic warrior-priest straight out of the scariest depths of Warhammer 40k lore. He's neck deep in enslaving a dozen different types of magi, he's clearly got deep knowledge of the blackest branches of arcane lore; lore that's straight up Lovecraft inspired. He's got a collection of magical artifacts straight out of the Old World. He's likely going to straight up destroy the 2nd most populated city in Westeros in the next book. He has literally deific ambitions. He's easily the scariest person in book-Westeros, and is set to become the most dangerous, if he comes even *close* to achieving the things that his current arc has him set on.

Show Euron is an uninspired pissant by comparison. The extent to which he's been miscast is close to making me gargle.Euron wardrobe looked liked he was trying to be a sexy biker but failed This is everyone's excuse for Euron's personality. If it works for you then more power to you but I just think its a lazy justification for bad writing. > This is a very stupid plan, however, the ironborn are idiots, and made him king.

Rekt!It's been said a lot, but...

Euron's outfit not only made me cringe, 
it really messed with the immersion.Is the "wedding gift"he is supposed to give Cersei a dead dragon?I still hate it. I love Euron's character in the books. Show Euron is way too generic comical villain. I can go watch Justice League Action, and there will be much more serious villains there.Gallivanting? Is that the kind of word you say when you've lost your cock?Euron is like a cartoon character. In a vacuum I like his character and he was entertaining, but he just feels weird in this show, particularly attempting to woo Cersei.The fact that they made him bad on purpose doesn't make him any less bad. Euron is Trump confirmed Euron = Neegan + Accent - (Leather jacket x bat) TV Euron is almost as much of a cunt as Book Euron. During the kingsmoot scene when he greets his brother's children

Euron: (Adressing Yara) Niece. (Adressing Theon) ........Nephew.

That pause before saying "Nephew", knowing what Ramsay had done to Theon. Truly an evil bastard.kq 
.It's not all that crazy that a moron could spout any old bullshit and people with narrow vision could buy it, just saying. *COUGH*donaldtrump*COUGH*I'm sorry but "because the ironborn are idiots" does not excuse abysmal writing.>Euron in the show is a bad character

IMO he's awful in the books too. Basically just a magic pirate version of Ramsey. I like him last season, but out the gate with episode one he looks way too pretty to be an ironborn. I always pictured a much more grittier character, not a flamboyant pirate.Still can't get over the fact that they somehow built a fleet 

Just doesn't make sense He's really hamming it up. It wasn't as cringe as last year's "let's go murder them" but I'm still not a fan of this incarnation of the character. Jaime definitely owned that scene.Yeah, god forbid GoT gets a comically evil villain.His outfit was horrible and he looked like an aging rock star. His plan is ok...I just wished there was a bit more madness in his eyes. Like a cross between Brad Pitt in 12 monkeys and Captain Blackbeard. He just seems like an arrogant prick instead of a mad and deadly pirate king.

I think he's supposed to be menacing. Whether or not either medium succeeds in making him so is up to you."The Ironborn arent good at anything"I love Euron, both in the show and in the books.

Anyway, did anyone else react to the fact the the Ironborn fleet wasn`t made up of longships but instead what looked like war galleys?Eurtrump greydonaldDid anyone think that Euron looked/sounded really out of place? Like the lead singer of an Alternative Rock band was transported to medieval times?Even if that's what they were going for it's a shit idea. Euron is the most menacing human character in the books and they turned him into an idiot. Also, the Ironborn are not stupid. Asha is not stupid, Theon is not stupid, Euron is not stupid, from what we've read Balon wasn't even stupid. They are the only people in Westeros who practice democracy, they are the best sailors in the series.You're half-right. He is supposed to be appealing to the stupid Ironborn, because he knows how to play them. 

Euron's going to surprise everyone, I know it. 

Also anyone who thought he was literally going to build 1,000 ships is an idiot. He clearly built a couple hundred, which is more realistic and it *looks* like a thousand. I mean is there a single person here that unironically believes Euron in the books is a well written character and not comic book evil?He is much better, but I still don't like him.
  

But that also might be, because I'm Danish and the actor is Danish. So last year everyone on TV was super hyped that another Dane was playing an important role in Game Of Thrones.... Yes well I was not hyped...My reaction to S7E1 was exactly the opposite. I was on the fence regarding show Euron previously, now I think that he'll be a new Dorne though.

Book Euron is evil, dark and cunning. He has no moral qualms and is prepared to kill, torture and burn whomever and whatever he needs to achieve his objective, but he does have an objective. He is intelligent and strategic, he plans ahead and he thinks carefully before he acts.

Show Euron on the other hand seems to be a poor imitation of the joker. He wants to kill, torture and burn solely for the joy of killing, torturing and burning. He's a grown man with the mind of a boy that burns ants with a magnifying glass for the fun of it. Show Euron is a just a witless, sadistic brute, lacking all the nuances of one of GRRM's major characters. Before you get too excited remember Stannis in season 5 ://Show Euron is teetering on the edge of being almost a caricature of evil. What I think is preventing that is Pilou Asbaek being the actor he is, I'm excited to see more of him this series[Show-Euron](http://imgur.com/a/rQH40) looks like a hipster from Berlin queueing for Berghain. The styling feels off to me and broke my immersion. Reminds me of of Daenerys in season 3 with her [blue dress and grey jeans](http://images6.fanpop.com/image/photos/34100000/Dany-and-Jorah-daenerys-targaryen-34156101-1920-1080.jpg). Or we could go with Occam's Razor and just admit that D&D are lazy and probably didn't read the Euron chapters very closely or even care about them.

It won't be the first character they've wrecked.  See:  Stannis, everyone in Dorne, etc.

Plus, we know they can't even be bothered to do the little things that require next to no effort to make the show better and more in line with the books.  Like the fight at the Tower of Joy.  How freaking hard would it be to get the costume department to give Oswell Whent a bat-winged helm instead of just making him some random dude?  How hard would it have been to give Sir Arthur motherfucking Dayne a glowing sword to make it match with Dawn, his legendary sword from the books?  Plus, they couldn't even be bothered to hire one big dude to be there playing Hightower.

They've been checked out of this thing ever since George stopped writing all their material for them.  Euron's character is awful in the show because they couldn't be bothered to actually do the character justice.  I hope you've all strapped your big boy pants on, because it's only going to get worse.  We've got twelve episodes left to wrap this thing up and these two hacks are already looking for the exit.  Maybe the main characters will have their storylines paid off well.  Maybe.  Everyone else is just grist for the mill.  I disagree completely. Show Euron is nothing more than a magical hipster who can spawn ships without wood and in an amazingly short amount of time. 

Whoever chose his clothing for this episode made a disappointing mistake in my opinion. I literally couldn't stop laughing at how much of hipster he looked and acted. It's such a waste of a good character and a good actor. You liked him from this episode of the show?I feel like they're basically making him into chaotic evil jack sparrow, and I'm totally ok with that. Not the worst deviation from the books they've done, and I doubt they would have had time to make Euron into the character he is in the books anywayGiven his connection to the warlocks in the books and his final subtle nod to undead Mountain tonight it makes me wonder if he truly does have powers from the essence. 

On topic I thought he had a great presence, was not in anyway intimidated being alone with all those blades around him, mocked Jaime, tried to charm Jaime, tried to charm Cersei, grin nodded at the Mountain only to back off only to try the stairs again and then walks off without even bowing like a boss. 

I liked it. I didn't get the Jack Sparrow vibe at all. Maybe the eye makeup I guess. 

Euron worked for me in this episode too. You can tell he planned this conversation beforehand because he knew exactly what to say in order to appeal to Cersei and even Jaime. Though appealing to Jaime was mostly a roundabout way to appeal to Cersei I think. Euron seems to know that in order to get to Cersei he can't just ignore Jaime. So he compliments him as the best swordsman in the world. He shows that he doesn't hold a grudge about his family's defeat in the Greyjoy rebellion. He suggests that brother killing is fine because he knows Cersei really wants to kill her brother. When the Mountain approaches Euron we see that Euron isn't easily blinded by his ego. He backs off without a threatening word. When his marriage offer is rejected he doesn't crumble. He bows out gracefully and promises to return with a priceless gift. 

Which I'm sure will be a dragon. The dragons were called "priceless" by Jorah too when Dany traded Drogon for her unsullied. 

Anyway, this Euron knows how to politic and he is already making Ramsay look like an impulsive little kid. Euron showed off his intellect this episode which is far more terrifying to me than a gorey display of brutality, or whatever people were expecting from Euron in episode 1. 

I find the contrast in writing quality really weird sometimes. How does this Euron scene occur in the same episode with "Are you old enough to drink?" and "I have to tell Jon this thing I learned a year ago and just relearned now!"I imagine Euron like the Joker from the Dark Knight. The Joker was comically evil *and* menacing - a villain who understood the complexities of the world, but in a very perverted way. Euron doesn't give me that fear that he's smarter than me and sees something I don't. He's not Heath Ledger's Joker, he's more Jack Nicholson's. That is why I'm disappointed with the show version of Euron.Betting dollars to donuts he kills Jamie. 

Or mutilates him further.I liked him! He's nuts. He looks like a pirate. He's got swag. I dig it. >Euron is not supposed to be a menacing villain, he's a moron and he's crazy, and he thinks he is hot shit. The ironborn, being the ironborn, agree with him.

It's fine that you think this about show Euron, but if you believe this about book Euron you're a total moron. TL:DR Ironborn are Trump votersWhat are the all the 14 seas again?you've sold me. i shall embrace knockoff Jack Sparrow. long may he eyeliner.> When gallivanting around the world he convinced himself that he was hot shit. That he was the greatest pirate of all the 14 seas.

‘Gallivanting?’ Is that the sort of thing you say when your dick gets chopped off?I actually welcome his new-found personality. He even seemed like a character tonight, instead of "Ironborn dude with a driftwood chip on his shoulder". 

Still a far cry from book Euron, but I'm cautiously optimistic. Let's see how that goes.Honestly I thought the Kingsmoot scene was pretty clearly him bullshitting. He seems to me like an unhinged guy, but a *smart* unhinged guy. People have compared him to the Joker which I think is accurate. The Joker is both crazy and smart. He's an agent of chaos but he always has a plan. 

Euron played to his audience in both the Kingsmoot and the meeting with Cersei. "Where are my niece and nephew? Let's go murder them." isn't him trying to be cool because he's a fucking moron like the other Iron Islanders. It's him saying something moronic because that's what the other Iron Islanders want to hear. 

Show Euron seems to be a mix between Victarion and Euron. A little crazy and a little dumb. But I can dig it. I think its more that they combined elements of both victorian and euron into one character. If you look at that way it makes much more sense.I liked the way he kind of said what came into his mind and wore his emotions on his sleeve in an off putting sort of way. It reminded me of Ghirahim from Legend of Zelda: Skyward Sword in a strange way. Euron on the show seems like he has potential to really mess with characters on a psychological level while being a lunatic himself. I hope things play out because he's supposed to be a big bad guy to replace Ramsay and the only way I can think to replace a sadistic psychopath is with a character that messes with heads.

Slightly unrelated: I have a feeling Cersei is going to get played hard by him. She has been such an impenetrable fortress for so long that to see him somehow hold some power over her would really throw people off, I think.

But I could be completely wrong about everything I just said.He's the new bad guy, he's supposed to be menacing once he shows his stuff. Track down and read the Forsaken chapter if you haven't. Euron is Ramsay 2.0.Show!Euron is not Book!Euron, that's for sure. But man, that dumbass swagger really works for me. He has no idea how the world sees him, or at least, thinks himself above that kind of judgment. 

We're not getting our eldritch apocalypse with this Euron. But we're gonna get a lunatic with a bazillion ships thrown into the middle of five different wars. I can't wait. His eyes (there's still two, damn) looked more mad in this scene and more menacing last season. If he loses an eye and gains some magic swag he could come close to book Euron. He seems more unhinged now.Watching that scene, the word *unhinged* came to mind.I like this headcannon.  I too was a bit disappointed with Euron last season, but that didn't ruin the show or anything for me, of course.  But now that we saw a bit more of his character tonight, I'm on board.   Leather pants *IS* Valyrian Steel!

But actually, though.  I expect we'll see the armor, the horn, and hopefully the *Silence* at some point.  

The horn is still the only hard-counter to the dragons that we know of, and without that thing in play the Whitewalkers are seriously out of luck. He reminds me of the Joker.He's channeling Travis Fimmel's performance from Vikings now, I think. Makes him a lot more watchable, I guess.I liked the performance. The jacket, though? Burn that one.You know how in the books, we expected Waymar Royce to be an overcompensating coward, but he turned out to have a respectable unexpected courage while facing ice demons of myth? 

I hope showEuron turns out to be someone you initially think is a moronic blowhard with a laughably overestimated self-image, but turns out to be the Valyrian Steel Armor wearing, dragon horn wielding, priest-torturing world traveled agent of pure unadulterated charming evil who you could picture achieving godhood through obscene amounts of blood magic. 

Betting that he'll turn out to be the valonquar, and kill Cersei, who's impregnated with his unborn child for blood magic sacrifice to do something that will make the masses squirm.

Trope subversion at its best Right now, he's traipsing around like a drunk frat boy at a sorority mixer acting like he's hot shit because he has a Camaro and his dad is a lawyer. Show Euron is pretty silly. I was totally with Jaime and the looks he was giving Cersei. "Are you really buying this shit right now?"This is a great perspective to take. I straight-up laughed when Euron came on screen with that outfit. My headcanon has assimilated to fit this.I'm glad D&D did this right away and I thought the scene did a good job of presenting this ShowEuron. Euron can't be a stale villain this season or no one will care about him and his arc. Also if you like ShowEuron, it might give you something to root for on Cersei's side.He's a boater not a biker I mean it doesn't work all that well though. I think it's rather poorly written tbh, "Murder, murder, murder". Some silly jokes here and there and voila you have show euron.  
Massive letdown for me personally.I sort of agree with you. He definitely took evil, crazy pirate swag to a whole new level, even his outfit looked cool.Book Euron is badass as shit, there's no denying that.

But tonight, I liked what ShowEuron brought to the table. Wasn't too over the top, threw out a couple decent jabs at Jaime. It could be because the bar was set pretty low after the Kingsmoot but all in all I agree with you.Do you mean in the show or in the books?

In the show, yeah, his swagger today reminded me of Jack Sparrow.

In the books? Well, go look up a summary of the Forsaken chapter from TWOW. I heard GRRM read it for the first time at Balticon 50 last year. When the crowd enthusiastically chose that chapter for him to read, I believe he called us "sick motherfuckers."He might not be menacing but one have to give him credit for pulling ten thousand ships out of his assFrom walking around in a suit of valyrian steel and drinking essence of night, torturing priests of various religions, and basically trying some serious dark shit to try and create a new god or turn into a new god...to black leather pants, a black sequin shirt, and a bad jack sparrow impression.  No, fuck euron on tv.I thought Euron meant Dany as well. He obviously wants Cersei to think he means her, but I don't think the sum of his ambition is to be Cersei's kept boy.A live one perhaps. Dragonbinder?It would be fine if Cersei's hair ever grew out...He kind of had the "it's 4am in Los Angeles" kind of look.Bam MargeraYes, and even the clothes looked a little off.

EDIT: now I saw your looked/sounded. Yeah, so I agree. 100%.Hello there!I think there is a method to his over the top evilness. I think he is trying to scientifically deduce which "Gods" are real, and determine how to interact with then. \>DanskjävelIt's his overuse of the word "murder." He sounds like a child now.Honestly I never looked twice at his clothes. Nothing stood out to me but I think maybe that's just a "me" thing. I've never paid much attention to clothes for whatever reason. I'm not blind to them but their effect on my perception of a person is probably more subconscious than conscious. "This guy feels piratey for some reason." Luls. I have no idea how people catch things like the wolf embroidering on Sansa's clothes.Well it's obvious that they really only care about the big main players that casual show fans will recognize and root for. They seriously play heavy favorites. It's sad that they turned this into lowest common denominator shit.I agree with all of this but they did put a sun emblem for House Dayne on Dawn in the Tower of Joy sceneI thought the outfit was a good choice. It contrasted very well with what he wore at the Kingsmoot which was a very typical Ironborn garb. It kind of suggests that he is more worldy than your typical Ironborn and that he knows how to manipulate people in a subtle way. At the Kingsmoot he presented himself as a stereotypical Ironborn. In front of Cersei he presented himself as kind of a chaotic, sarcastic braggart who can give her what she wants. Playing in very well into the chaotic, sarcastic, egotistical person she is. "You're not the most humble" "You're not humble"I think he does. Go back to last season. The episode he's introduced he says "I am the storm, brother". Later that season Jon says "The true enemy won't wait out the storm. He brings the storm."

Euron's character has always had a slight hint at having a connection to the white walkers and sorcery in the books. I don't think it's coincidence that the show had those lines, and I think they're connected.It's either the dragons or he is going to go after TyrionYou know what's interesting, his reaction to the mountain was different than anyone else has had. From his angle he could see some of his face and eyes. I wonder if he *knew* what sort of thing happened to the mountain. He had an understanding expression on his face, it might of been for the situation and limits on him, or it could be about the nature of the thing in front of him.

It hinted to me that the book Euron with his dark magic might exist in the show under his charm and puffery. Maybe he's seen zombies in his travels or from his deals with warlocks. I don't think we've ever got to see exactly who else is on the crew of his personal ship right? From the book I know it was *weird* on there.The gift will be something shit and useless like the sand snakes.It has to be a dragon. Sand Snakes or Theon/Yara are not priceless. I think the old enough to drink was a joke as it was not uncommon to have children drinking in the dark ages. Sam probably played whimsical because casual watchers might not think much about dragonglass and would be confused about Jon suddenly trading with Daenerys. Hopefully Sam get to learn some info about Whitewalker culture or tactics that could save mankind in the end. No! Ironborn are Hillary voters, duh. 

Fuck off poltiics. Twice the number of the seven seas!I am sad that I had to scroll that much to find this quote.Did the great lords of Westeros teach you that word?Lol @ driftwood chip on his shoulder. Sounds like it could be part of a lyric to some bard's song. The actor even said as much. He said the kingsmoot was Euron appealing to the Iron born.He is going to make the Iron Islands great again.https://media.giphy.com/media/a6AY7qYesgUYo/giphy.gifThe key point people keep forgetting is that Iron Islanders are idiots. *VictarionWe all know Euron. He's that guy a woman dates when she wants to piss someone off. So she finds the weirdest guy she can find. The problem is that such relationships often have a way of blowing up in your face. I'm not sure he really thinks he's above judgement so much as he doesn't give a fuck to begin with. And he thinks it's fun to screw with people.Book Euron isn't missing an eye.I understood that reference. Pretty sure we already saw Silence tonight. he should be channeling Gustaf Skarsgård
He's NOT burning the jacket, dude!My money is on him being slain by a real kraken for all his pissing on religion, the Drowned God and his priests in particular. It kind of makes sense that a man who has done everything Euron has claimed or hinted at would be detached from reality a bit, he does everything for his own gain, so why not enjoy life? He isn't bound by honor, duty, revenge, or love. 

With that in mind I expect a full tone switch with him at some point, likely when the runed armor is donned, when the screaming tortured persists, the tongueless slaves, and the warlocks come out with blood magic to play. 

To me he screams of some kind of Chaos Raider from Warhammer Fantasy that is sane enough to dress nice and at least enjoy the madness that is about to come as it furthers his goal to find (or become) true divinity.Correct me if I'm wrong, but he's headed off to get the horn or Joramun, no?

What if it ends up that he gives it to Cersei, un-gregor can use it without dying (cause he's already dead), and she then controls the dragons?  Could be interesting.Another azor ahai.  How interesting would I be to have a villain save  the dayThe actor gave an interview recently where he "confirmed" that show Euron changes his manner depending on who he's talking to. So he was menacing with Balon and a loudmouth meathead during the Kingsmoot to appeal to the loudmouth meathead Ironborn. ........... How you watched the show up to this point?A guy who has been in four scenes kills the lead on the show? I don't see it. I did like that Jamie perfectly articulated most of show-watchers opinions of the Ironborn. Maybe that means you're right, and the trope will get blown up this season.

I also thought that the North would remember last season, though.That's too hard and too clever for D&D. 1 Dimensions preferred, 0 dimensions desirable. Fuck yeah this sounds like my kinda Euron>he's ~~traipsing~~ gallivanting around 


I wanted to say that he reminds me of that guy with the over-priced baseball hat with the sticker still on it who's so kill because he's selling this dope ass weed out of his grandma's house.Show Euron is closer to book Dario than show Dario is. In that book Dario is a fucking clown, and show Euron is a fucking clown.The 'gift' will absolutely win her like Umber with Ramsay last season. Jaime gettin' friend zoned.I never thought of it before but this fits in with book cersei when she started to surround herself with people everyone else thought she was crazy to have as advisors (i.e. Aurane Waters) just because she thought she could control them.  He fits in that sense because she thinks she's smarter than him.  

I just have to force myself to separate book Euron and show Euron who are two entirely different people.I feel like book Euron's just as silly. Everything about his character is rather over the top, in a dumb way. I distinctly remember rolling my eyes when he says how he cut out the tongues of his crew lol. Like does the concept of mutiny not exist in this universe? GRRM has a lot of psychopathic characters and I feel like Euron was not only the 'one too many' but also the most poorly written and excessive. It feels like instead of sailing in from Valyria or wherever he instead sailed into the Iron Islands from some far shlockier fantasy series.I think of the Greyjoys and Iron Islands as kind of the white trash of Westeros. Scumbag pirate Greyjoy shows up and starts talking about marrying the queen and she has to actually consider it because of dire straits.In fairness, she hasn't got anything to lose. If he succeeds, he has helped her immensely and she can then consider what to do from there. If he fails, it's his ships and men, not hers.Jaime this episode imo was perfect. The "you have no idea how in over our heads we are" look he gave when talking about how fucked they were, the "Wtf you wrote off our son's suicide as *betraying you*" look. Hes finally seeing how much Cersei has lost it and cant believe his eyes and that he hasnt seen it coming before it came to this.your a ~~wizard~~ boat harry!Definitely want more developed Euron, and I think this past episode showed that we could be on track. 

That being said, I hope he ditches the hipster garb for some Valyrian steel armor.I feel like the only one who thought he sounded lame as fuck, apart from a few burns on Jaime.  Not intimidating at all (apart from the size of his fleet).Yeah.  He just felt like some swaggery Pirate King, which I'm okay with.  Wondering what Salladhar Sahn thinks of this assholeHe had gravitas, which show Euron had not had up to this point. Book Euron is part demon, part warlock, part pirate. Show Euron is a frat boy with daddy's money I think people forget that Euron in S6 had two scenes, one absolutely amazing, and one shit. And people only quote the shit one. There's still hope, and The Silence looked amazingI really like him as a villain in the book's tbh I mean in the show its a little cartoonish but in tv these things are always gonna be an exaggerated version, and it's working tbhUsername checks out, loves and knows sickos. Also (too personal?) makes fun noises? His actor said his character would make Ramsay Bolton look like a kid so I expect him to do some stuff worthy of being called a sick fuck.     He looks like a wet cat especially with that haircut. He doesn't seem like he's a good warrior. One handed Jaime could probably beat his ass. Probably should have been more clear that I'm referring to show Euron here.   
That's what I'm saying, I think most people dislike show Euron because they were expecting the demon in a pirate suit that is book Euron and instead got a less self aware Jack Sparrow. This is very funny... but how many ships did Euron arrive home with? I know in the books its explicit but I don't think it is on the show. Huh. Tywin Lannister shits gold, Euron Greyjoy shits ships.

So incredibly painful. "Bring me that horizon!"Thousand ships....the Iron Islands have no fucking trees. 

Logic! It helps when you can take advantage of the densely populated forests of the Iron Islands.It's a pity about the script, because I think Pilou Asbaek is actually a very good actor. Yeah it's the attitude too. TV Euron is all bluster and boasts of killing his brother while being all "Those rotton kids got away with my best ships!". Book Euron is smart and low-key but also insane and spooky at the same time, he doesn't bother trying to talk himself up as an evil motherfucker because it's apparent how evil he is when you see him.I referred to him last night as "medieval Freddie Mercury".He looked like a grown man who still listens to My Chemical Romance. No offense to any grown men here who still listen to MCR. I'm kinda hoping he is playing them for fools. We haven't seen him in a serious situation yet, I'm hoping he is just trying to seem crazy and moderately unassuming/unintimidating.I prefer the tone and style oofShow!Euron (though he could have been implementented MUCH better).  Book!Euron was always way too over the top for me and sorta a deux ex machina with all magical stuff he just have because "totally more evil and brave than anyone else"I didn't see Jack Sparrow. I saw a lot of Iron Island personality and quirks. It was cool how similar to Theon he was. Not the attitude. But you could see his heritage in his personality quite a bit. I really liked that detail. [removed]I'm not seeing any Jack Sparrow impression.  I don't get that.That chapter is part of a book that may not exist so it doesn't count. yes.

Book Euron is an almost supernatural badass with a big dark beard, who survived Valyria, wears an eyepatch, has a bunch of mute slaves from all over the world including Warlocks, has a killer dragonbinding horn, molested and tortures his own brother, seduced/raped his other brother's SO and manipulated him into honor-killing her, performs weird ritual blood magic, and generally looks and sounds like a Pirates of the Caribbean supervillain.

Instead we get a low-rent, braggart Hot Topic-wearing fool who comes off as the sort of guy who dies 5 minutes into a John Wick movie.

Even without the insane villainy and supernatural stuff, he should still be more "Captain Barbossa" than "Captain Trainspotting."Do you think he paid the iron price for that designer set?Sadly, TV Euron is episodes [away from reaching his final form](https://uproxx.files.wordpress.com/2013/07/mick-dance.gif?w=650)We might still get to see that stuff (or at least some of it). They're making Euron into one of the last human antoganists and so far we've only had three scenes with him. I'm still reserving my judgement until at least the end of this season.Seriously I want to see a suit of mothafucking valerian steel armoryeah the varied time progression in the show, particularly among back-to-back scenes is really frustrating at times. Like, I get it....but it just makes me angry lmao I just thought he looked kinda skinny.Or brightroarYeah, my initial reaction is that he meant Tyrion.I could find a use for them...Nymeria Sand is pretty priceless. 

But seriously, I don't know of anything in this world that qualifies as priceless except a dragon. Does Euron seem like the type to return with less than he promised? Does Cersei seem like the type who would accept anything less than what was promised? Euron's promise seems to suggest that he already has something planned.The Sam line was definitely for the show watchers, but it could have been handled much better. Just like if when Danny landed at Dragonstone they should have just had an unsullied say "We cleared the castle, the defenders were few but they put up a vicious defense." It would have set up why she was walking through unhindered and that taking Westeros isn't going to be a cakewalk.Ha! I was waiting for someone to post something like this.  


Joker might talk about having no plan all the time but no way he blew up a hospital or put bombs on those boats without extensive planning. Like Euron, he was playing to his audience. He told Harvey whatever he needed to in order to get what he wanted. Curse you auto cornet!Jamie has a lot of "I told you so" on the way. Lol you're right. He does hide it though. I guess I just don't see him having an eye patch on the show unless he loses one. 

Edit: clarification and punctuation That wasn't a reference to anything.boo.That actually makes a lot of sense. He was in "seduction mode" with Cersei. a man can dream. D&D love their edgelord villains. Ramsay was never meant to be so OP, and showEuron is supposed to make showRamsay look like a little kid Walder Frey's third scene was the red wedding. Anyone can kill anyone, a character being safe from a threat just because they're a lead goes against the entire spirit of the seriesthis show should be about subverting the rules. Past couple seasons that wasn't the case, but we'll seeWhile he wasn't wrong in his appraisal of the Ironborn, Jaime probably realised that Euron was there with a marriage proposal and was getting jealous. We're talking about a guy who got jealous because Loras, a known homosexual (a known degenerate, in Joffrey's parlance), was to have an arranged marriage with Cersei. He must be very insecure to view a man he knows is gay as a legitimate love rival. In his position, I'd be actively encouraging such a marriage. That said, I wouldn't be knocking off my sister in the first place.I think the emphasis on Jamie's perception of the Ironborn and the presentation of Euron who was very different from what Jamie was describing, aside from the betrayal part, points to a devious Euron with something up his sleeve. Totally agree - out of nowhere GRRM wanted to make an ultimate villian and it came off kind of embarassingly in that preview chapter.Yeah but some of the shit he's doing in Winds is pretty weird and spookery. All that torturing different sorcerers, his Valyrian steel armour, the way he might just fucking steal Viseryon.I exclusively refer to Iron Islanders as "trash pirates"I see them as the Vikings at the end of the Viking age and Harald Hardradas failed try to take back England.The betrayal she was referring to was when Tommen outlawed trial by combat, ensuring that Cersei would be fully punished for her crimes, forcing her to take such drastic measures against the Faith.His disbelief when she called Sansa a murderer was intense. How can Tyrion be the one who killed Joffree and Sansa as well? He realizes Cercei is crazy. He just hasn't decided what to do. I think Cersei mentioning a betrayal more had to do with how he embraced the Faith, not his suicide.In the books (I'm a little rusty, obviously, as I've only read each one once) isn't he already at a point of ignoring her? In the most recent book while he's at the Tully siege, doesn't he crumple her plea for aid?I loved how his whole vibe was very Mugatu-esque. "I feel like I'm taking crazy pills!" The guy wants her to have a normal reaction. Were she to just totally break down and shut herself away for a week, I think he'd almost be happy. Instead she's acting like it all doesn't bother her and the worst part is, you wonder if it doesn't.I'm with you. The emo costume and make up didn't help to make him look like a serious threat. I think he hit just the right note...not intimidating, but completely unintimidated. 

Except for the scene he was introduced in, but sure. which one is the worst?He reminds me more of a pot-dealing living the high-life out of grandma's house.What was the good one?> I think people forget that Euron in S6 had two scenes, one absolutely amazing, and one shit. And people only quote the shit one. There's still hope, and The Silence looked amazing
> 

Exactly, I remember people on here *raving* about that first scene on the bridge. I really hope we get some mutes.For me, it comes down to Asbæk's portrayal. He's not that interesting visually aside from his similarities to the actor who plays Theon, and he's just a bland screen presence. I would have liked a Euron who was a little mysterious in addition to being an unhinged wildcard, someone whose machinations aren't entirely clear. In the show, I have no doubt his endgame is murdering on behalf of Cercei in order to rule at her side, whereas Euron in the books seems to be playing a longer game. Perhaps I'll be proven wrong, but D+D have let me down too many times.This new scene works, even if I would prefer book Euron.

I just hope it doesn't turn into a 20-goodmen type situation, where taking of his shirt somehow makes him invulnerable. Its been what 3 episode he has been in during the show, and almost all have been introducing the character. Ramset wast the sick fuck he was til a few episodes in and he gets worse throughout. Give the show some time to show the charactwr do meaningful thingsMaybe Theon will inherit some of the Damphair's arc...in a very uncomfortable way.Maybe he'll molest someone like it's implied he did in the books.He does look very similar to Theon though. So good casting? XDBut don't you know? He has *two hands*He's Euron's plot with heavy dose of Victarion's personality.Additional problem with Show!Euron: Dude has the same problem as everyone else who got me duds this season, his costume is boring. 

I mean fuck, pirates are supposed to be flamboyantYes, I 100% agree.You don't know those ships are made out of wood! Maybe they're made out of lichen and seagull bones. Concrete boats, he said it in season 6.The real question is how they recovered from the rebellion. They didn't actually loose that many ships taking the north, and they might have harvested lumber from the wolfswood during the time they held it. How they built up again after having their fleet smashed and sunk is beyond me though. Who would sell them lumber in the first place, and how would they steal it without a fleet?Lol.  Even GRRM ignored this.  But it's hard to ignore it on the show. Did anyone actually see one tree on any of the iron islands sets?   Didn't think so...That's why Balon could not hold the north. He forgot to build and man a thousand ships. Big strategic mistake.Theon's supposed to be a shitty Iron Islander though. Everyone thinks he's gone Greenlander on them. This comment was removed. See rule 1, our civility policy. [removed]yeah I don't know wtf people are going on aboutDaylight. Savings. 

Supposed to be for farmers or some shite. I've been in exile for 15 years. How was I supposed to know? Captain Trainspotting holy shit hahahaWhere would that have fit all of this into the show?He'd look absolutely ludicrous if they tried to stay faithful to the book. > the sort of guy who dies 5 minutes into a John Wick movie.


Funny enough, Alfie Allen/Theon was killed at the end of John Wick.Lol he paid with his integrity from book to showYeah it feels like they might be building him up as a "goofball" for the show watchers, but then he'll pull some truly evil and horrific shit out and shock everyone. Maybe they feel like another character coming out of the gate with absolute psychopathy would ring hollow so soon after Ramsay. i just want ironbornman; as long as we get the suit and he wrecks some shit with it ill at least begrudgingly like the character I mean....they could've been Valyrian steel sequins...I wanna see him in that armor, hugging a Walk Walker to death.  We'll get thereI think you're suppose to think Tyrion, but book readers know he has the dragonhorn.the actor, on the differences between show and book character:

"Yeah, he doesn't have the Dragonbinder … or does he?"The people themselves aren't priceless, the revenge Cersei can get is however. If Euron brought her the Dorne crew, then Cersei finally gets to have guaranteed revenge on the women who murdered her innocent daughter. It'll be used as a way to establish Euron as a serious baddie but it won't work because people are either apathetic about the Dornish cast at best or loathe them and will wholeheartedly cheer on anything bad that happens at worst. Yes, absolutely, I agree with you. It was just too juicy to *not* post that gif!My mistake, but look up the rusty hinge/Euron/Aeron theory. Amusing choice of words. They're just not going to fridge Cersei for Euron lol

And it doesn't go against the spirit of the series at all. Ffs they literally ressurected a lead. Even George has his favorites that he says he'd never kill.


The book was maybe, but the show is rather hollywood in comparison. There's 'pulling the rug out from under you' and there's 'wow, that makes huge portions of the story I've invested my time into feel pointless'. Euron killing Cersei is the latter. Yeah I think he could have gotten away with Euron's eccentricity if he didn't go full steam out of the gate with it.I think book Euron is portrayed as evil incarnate, but his evil as described in GRRMs word is more portrayed more over-the-top evil than the subtext proves out.  GRRM seems to be trying to hide ruthless cunning behind a mask of insanity and evil.  I find it really intriguing.  That said, I am not an "ends justifies the means" guy, so he will never be a character that I identify with.  

I see his book plot as potentially spoiling all sorts of other houses' plans including the Lannisters, Hightowers, Tyrells, Targaryen, and the other Greyjoys, Littlefinger, fake Aegon, Martell, the watch (through Sam), and yes even the Starks.  With the mind control war he seems to be waging, we don't know how deep and far his influence may run. 

The potential of the book plot seems disappointingly reduced in the show to the binary conflict of him choosing Cersei's side over Dany's with a potential double-cross later on.  I think the actor is doing a good job with what he's working with to make us wonder if he's ruthlessly cunning (cunningly ruthless?) or just insane, but its reduced to a comic relief sideshow instead of the role of a major player.Only difference is that Harald was actually a badass, not just full of himself.She writes him while he's in the river lands asking him to be her champion in the trial by combat and he burns the letter"...Lancel and Osmund Kettleblack and probably Moon Boy for all I know.""Help me. Save me. I need you now as I have never needed you before. I love you. I love you. I love you. Come at once." ADWD Cerci I.

""Does my lord wish to answer?" the maester asked, after a long silence.
A snowflake landed on the letter. As it melted, the ink began to blur. Jaime rolled the parchment up again, as tight as one hand would allow, and handed it to Peck. "No," he said. "Put this in the fire." AFFC Jamie 7. Yes, he has stopped giving a fuck what she wants or needs in the books.  Cersei asks for help, he runs off with Brienne instead.  I don't know, he was more Captain Jack sparrow then the monster I had hoped for.I noticed that as soon as Jaime was talking about Tommen, Cersei basically ran across the room straight to the wine and poured herself a drink.The one that's more likely to drug and rape you.The best comment I've read was something like Show's Euron the late thirty-something still dressed in 80s fashion, showing up in a old cheap sportscar outside of a skating rink, hoping to pick up girls of a questionable age.

I kinda want to see some Valyrian armor, even though steel armor doesn't seem like a good idea at sea.Non-speaking roles (extras) don't cost a lot, so why not?> For me, it comes down to Asbæk's portrayal. He's not that interesting visually aside from his similarities to the actor who plays Theon, 

There is a similarity, isn't there? Just like I could easily buy Balon and Yara as a father and daughter. Good casting.Just imagine a book Euron being portrayed by Mads Mikkelsen in the show.


Instead we get Budget Jack Sparrow portrayed by Well He Looks Like Theon Kinda.So Charlie Day?Also they introduced him too late I think for a lot of his book plots. I know he doesn't have many chapters in the books but you just get so much more detail in a 20-30 page chapter than 5-10 minutes of screen time per episode. With only twelve episodes remaining there is only so much you can portray and I feel like if you really wanted to get book Euron you'd have to devote more time to him. The show made the decision to make him different from his book counterpart to fit their sped up plot.This is my real fear with this season. It feels like they're just going to do a "villain of the season" thing, which defeats the whole epic scale of the show. I really hope they don't just have this new character who has no development do massive, plot-changing things just because they don't know what else to do.

Basically, I think they're going to have him kill a Dragon and it's going to really piss me off because that sort of thing needs to be earned.Well... He already has two good hands to start with. TBH, we prefer most book counterparts. 

So far in s7, I'm liking Euron. Please no more ramsay plot armor. Euron has 30 good men and will conquer the entire seven kingdoms. Yeah that was definitely beyond sloppy writing, although I think you're conflating two scenes there hahaThinking the same thing, the fact it's just a hole where his shamalamadingdong used to be makes this even more uncomfortable.Rusty hinges. Small point: the books implied it. The reader inferred it.Sickest burn since quentyntwo *good* handsVictarion's personality? Victarion is the opposite of quirky crazy/unhinged. That's an even more egregious oversight when you consider the fact that surely for an Iron Islander the more interestingly the dress is a testament to amount that they have raided and stolen. I would almost expect someone like Euron to be more silks and trinkets.Not when you can't sow. Gotta reap that fit.D and D logic. I'm honestly not shocked anymore :P I fucking love this lol. Like if it was so easy to build a thousand fucking ships, Balon would have done it too. Yet in the show this is supposed to be what makes Euron uniquely powerful. In the books, he is powerful in his own right.Balon's invasion was still a success. He stole a shitload of lumber from the north.They called him shitty because he showed up claiming that he deserved things due to his birth and didn't prove himself in any meaningful way.Hi - 

Yes. Feel free to just use the report button if you see something you think breaks a rule; with the show season upon us, we're manning the Wall like never before. They also like the hot topic thing. Someone said it in a thread and it is circle jerk canon i agree, but I'd settle for halfway there.He'd have an eyepatch and lips blue lips from drinking warlock juice...it's not like he was super-over-the-top in appearance like Book Daario or some of the Wildlings and Gradzno's of Planetos to begin with. It was all of the shit surrounding him that was over-the-top...the entourage, the artifacts, the Iron Born themselves
...

That is probably the only reason that he made that commentWhat could they do? Have him rape and impregnate Yara, then use her and the fetus as a blood sacrifice? Taking old town, only to murder all of the women, children, & maesters for blood magic? 

He really has to do something unspeakable after S06E09 to be considered worse than Cersei. Do you mean a White Whiter perhaps?Agreed, I might get on board with Show Euron if that happens. But best if we never, ever see the Sand Snakes again.Accidental reference win!They are not "fridging" Cersei, her time is coming to an end already. At least use the word properly anyway.the show has been the former since late season 4/season 5I guess he's just suffering Sand Snake Syndrome. Too important to cut out completely, not important enough to implement all that well. Though Euron did come a little out of nowhere in the books too, and they did a good job explaining who he was today. Who knows, it's the start of the season, he may well become a cool character in the show as well. For all we know, he might be off to fetch that horn for cersei, though it may also be Tyrion or Brightroar.Shame we don't have victorionBest Jamie> Cersei asks for help, he runs off with Brienne instead. 

Sadly, probably not a good move by Jaime. This is why you should always choose your evil murdering drunkard of a sister over someone you respect for their honesty and honor. Yeah, but being totally drunk all the time isn't good.That what I love about those high school girls...alright alright alright Change all that to hanging out at a bar of an Apple B's to snag a date and you're right on.Valyrian is lighter.  

Also be a cool boss drop. They defeat him has the walkers come south. Then his armour is reforged into swords.Mads doesnt fit into that universe at all. He's totally wrong for it.I would unironically love this.Flowers for Euron.That would be fucking incredible Idk i think it would have worked. Less screentime -> more mysteryHaving a player kill a Dragon without "earning it" would be exactly the kind of event that has made GoT such a great show. Keep the viewers guessing. Don't always give them what they want.

1) It would establish a danger for Dany and her dragons, in everything she does. Last time we saw the dragons in action, there was absolutely no threat to them, and they could destroy the enemy with very little effort. It would be more interesting to watch if the Dragons had no plot armor like the Dire Wolves or the giants.

2) Euron simply killing a dragon would MAKE him a more interesting character. Even if it was in a mundane way, like with bow and arrow. The fact that he can and have killed a dragon means that everybody on both sides has to respect him. It drastically changes the balance of the conflict. I doubt it will happen in a mundane way though.

I have no fear for this season. I hope I get to see some cool stuff, but if this show just sticks the landing in a non-cringy way, I can live with all the stupid, illogical, inconsistent crap they do.Nah, 20-good-men was when Ramsay became the shirtless slaughterer Well, Creed, now what I'm implying is that if we're in an elevator together maybe I should take the stairs because talk about stank. In the preview chapter it wasn't even implied or inferred, they just straight-up said it. Confirmed: Stannis of House Baratheon is alive and well, currently using the reddit tag /u/AsDevilsRun to educate the masses.What happens if someone breaks them?Are two good hands better than twenty good men?  He's not "quirky", but I would definitely say Victarion is cocky, crazy, and unhinged. Dude beat his wife to death because Euron raped her, thinks he can seduce the dragon queen, refuses medical treatment because he thinks the maester is poisoning him, and wears plate armor in sea battles!Must be hard reaping clothes when you acquire them primarily by stabbing. What do you do with the holes? We do not sew.that happened in the books though...I hadn't heard the Hot Topic thing until this thread, but honestly when I saw his costume it looked jarringly out of place in GoT.

I was watching with my 2 roommates and they both commented on it as well.

The costume really does have a sort of goth/wannabe rock star look to it. The pants are skin tight and clearly leather/pleather.

Yeah, honestly to me it looked like what a pirate captain would wear, which he essentially is in the show. But, like it was his dress clothes since he was going to propose to a Queen in King's Landing.he just somehow comes off as one of Alfie Allen's less impressive henchmen in that movie.> What could they do? Have him rape and impregnate Yara, then use her and the fetus as a blood sacrifice? Taking old town, only to murder all of the women, children, & maesters for blood magic?

Guys, I think I found George's reddit account!He doesn't have to be worse than Cersei, he just has to be threatening to the the main characters.Oh dang, I mean actually meant Walter White Walker, he's like the best meth guy north of the wall.  That's why I think it's a problem, because if he does kill the Sand Snakes we won't see him as a villain who poses a threat to beloved characters but more of a plot device to wrap up hated plot points. Season 4? lol, that was a great season, arguably the best. If you didn't like that, I'm not sure there's any point in you watching. Oh crap brightroar.

That could sway cerci even though it's strategically worthless.OH NOW YOU TELL MEEvery year I get older .. and they just stay the same age...You got a joint man?No, no.  Women at the bar are at least 21.

I see Euron as more of a character that likes them young and naive because too many older women are experienced enough to see through his game.Mads would have been an excellent Roose Bolton, although Michael McElhatton was excellent enough. Mads, however, cannot hide his thick ass accent. Really? He's an incredibly versatile actor, put him in Viking-esque clothing and make him the demented brilliant pirate book Euron is and he would absolutely own it.Hannibal of House Lecter What? The Ironborn are Viking equivalents. Mads plays a mean Viking."You know the greatest thing about being the best pirate on the fourteen seas?"

*Cersei sighs*. "What, Euron?"

"The little green ghouls."

"Goddammit, Charlie!"

***

***The Gang Goes to Westeros***Wildcard, bitches!20 good men is the people he sent into stannis' camp to fuck up their army actually. Had nothing to do with fighting the ironbornYou're so powerful you lick people.

I hope you have a nice day!Ah. Haven't read the preview chapters.Exactly. Euron is explicitly a molesting piece of shit. Ah, but what if you had... *twenty good hands* 

#ArmsOfTheKrakenI would argue that Victarion's personality, such as it was, is a thing of the past.  He's a dead man reanimated by a red priest.   From here on out he is merely an imprint of his old self, on his way to becoming a full on automaton or fire wight.  "Victarion is a capable commander and a fierce warrior in battle, but has a calm demeanor outside of it, thinking of enemies who show bravery with great respect. He is a religious man and wears full plate armor while sailing because he has no fear of drowning. According to George R. R. Martin, Victarion is "dumb as a stump" and "a dullard and a brute"." 

He beat his wife because she was pregnant with his brother's kid and wanted to retain his honor, and he is only going to try to get with Daenerys because Euron sent him there and he figures he can try to wed her (in spite for Euron and the rape) instead of offering his brother. The dude isn't like Euron at all and the "crazy" is more just devout religious.Go the Victarion route and just bash their head in with an axe, there you go nice and cleanThey already had a considerable fleet though, and it wasn't "a thousand ships". Nor did half their fleet fuck off under "Yara" and Theon ;) Explains the blue eyes!Season 4 had great moments, some of the best, but it's also had it's fair share of dips and oddly chosen exclusions/changes. And as a season I believe it actually got worse after season 5 aired because those aformentioned dips/changes/exclusions became worse after you could see them either go nowhere, create roundabout plot issues, or just seeing that objectively "important" points of the story were being dropped all together.

I've always seen it as

Season 1-2 : solid and faithful adaptations of their books (still having some issues here and there, such as Jaime killing his cousin)

Season 3 : Hitting a stride of adapting the books to be better suited in the television medium, playing more to their strengths and underplaying what was harder to convey in a written narrative

Season 4 : following in the steps of season 3, but also the first season where David and Dan seemed to be rushing to the finish, and making more mistakes along the way

Season 5-6 : Save a few moments, overall bad writing, poor if not contradictory and regressive character development, racing from twist to twist and visual flare to visual flare

Say whatever you want about your opinion of the show, but look at the love and care they put into additional show only scenes in season 1 (varys + little finger, Ned & Jon outside of winterfell) as well as the bold choices they made in season 3 (Giving Robb more screen time while also changing him pretty dramatically from tragic hero to romantic hero), and weigh it against the later seasons, Dorne's bad pussy revenge porn, Ramsey's twenty good men, and the North apparently doesn't remember plot.Cersei stopped caring about strategy a while back, I feel likeAs Winston Churchill famously said: 

"In the morning I'll be sober but you will still not be out yet"- Sir Winston Churchill on TWOW Is there something you want to talk about?*Be a lot cooler if you did*Unless they're Cersei. Askov's accent is much worse than Mads is. We were wondering when he would begin speaking danish with JamieYou should check out the movie Valhalla Rising.I dont think he's that versatile, though he is a good actor. He just wouldnt fit, it would be bad casting.Oh that's right. It was Yara who brought the "50 best killers on the Iron Isles" who all were weak to dog-type. For the record, you have changed my opinion a fair bit. I still think they share a lot of the self-confidence, lack of introspection, and some other high level traits, but you're right that they differ a lot in how that affects their personality.

If I keep thinking about it I may decide that I'm entirely wrong and you're right. =)>there you go nice ~~and clean~~ "A thousand ships" doesn't mean 1000 ships. It means a lot of ships.I won't disagree with you other than to say you could make a very similiar argument about the books: started off great, peaked with aSoS, and has significantly declined since. In fact, "Save a few moments, overall bad writing, poor if not contradictory and regressive character development" is not far off from many opinions on AFFC.I always heard it was:

Bessie Braddock: "You sir, are drunk!"

Based Chruchill: "And you, my dear Bessie, are ugly(or crazy), but I shall be sober tomorrow, and you will still be ugly(or crazy)."

That's what I love about ironborn girls, man. He wants her throne not her snatch.He'd be better as Damphair than he would as Euron.If you want to explain who has contradictory and regressive character development in a book that's over 50% new povs, with all returning characters embarking on a new Arc for the start of the second act, Sansa's objectively being the weakest even though she arguably grows more as a character in feast then the last three books behind.

As far as bad writing it all depends on what you constitue as "the writing" George's word structure has been improving throughout the series, don't believe me read through the first 5 chapters of Game of Thrones then 5 chapters of Dance. The complaints that come from the last two books stem from a wider cast of P.O.V's and with it an increase in world building, the splitting of P.O.V's between books, and the long wait time between them. None of it is actually bad writing (in how I would classify what the writing actually entails). Yes the plot speed slowed down, mainly from the cutting of 3 large battles at the end of the book, but it should be noted when/if the winds of winter releases we will have our climax of act 2 and with the trilogy then complete you can better deconstruct and judge if his plotting leaves major unresolved issues or plot holes. Which would then allow you to find better ground to claim his writing has become poor.

The show arrived at these (more or less what may happen in the book) in season 6 and even season 5 in some cases, and we're shown to be poorly handled based around the stage they began setting in season 4. The show has amazing costumes, shooting locations, score, and actors (save Sophie Turner, Emelia Clarke, and a few supporting characters such as edmure). But the cinematography is hit or miss depending on the episode and the writing has been objectively bad the past two seasons. And it's no one's fault in that regard aside from D&D. I understand it must be immensely difficult to run a show of this size, and I commend them for the work they've done in bringing it together, but they are writing wish fulfillment fanfiction at this point, they call themselves architects but it sure feels like they are pantsing it season by season.Something like that. I mainly wrote this as a joke about all the fake historical quotes on the internet, so i think it is appropriate that i didn't research itYour comment alone has plenty of evidence that his writing "has become poor" (poor pacing, plot/writing scope creep, if/when the next book comes out). All of which is further proven by the fact that it took him two and a half books (AFFC, ADWD, plus the three large battles) that were supposed to be one book. Plus, you can't tell me his overall writing is better now that he's ignoring his editor's advice to cut down on the number of repeated phrases ("where do whores go?" and "words are wind" come to mind).

And if you feel the overall writing and quality of the show has decreased, it's in no small part that their original creator's contribution has decreased from detailed books to storyboards to simple ideas and notes, and D&D are forced to put the pieces together when even GRRM can't. Furthermore, it seems they intentionally slowed down certain plotlines to let GRRM get ahead of them both as a favor and for him to provide more material, but he hasn't.

When the overall quality of GOT nearly exactly follows their original source materal, you cannot blame it all on B&B."don't believe everything you read on the internet just because it has a famous person's name next to it" -Abraham Lincoln.Melisandre is always right, she just might be wrong first...Melisandre is always right she told Davos's son "death by fire is the purest death" and he got burned by wildfire at blackwater I may sound dumb, but why do people think Oldtown is where the WW will go?It makes sense to me. The wall is there to keep the Others out, so why not freeze the water by the end of the wall and walk around? Dead things in the water, dead things in the woods. The Others are slowly building their army. All they need after they turn everyone there to wights, is to walk down by the wall, freeze the water, and walk around the wall. Eastwatch in that case is doomed. So another question, does the Wall extend into the water, and how far if so? Mel misinterprets things. I think the pattern is something happens that sort of resembles her vision, like Alys Karstark at the wall. Then later we get the real version.

The show doesn't have time to mess around so we only get one scene at most.Show will be Eastwatch.  Books will still be Oldtown.  I think.I'm too tired to read more than the title rn,but mel is right far more often than she is given credit forEastwatch is the obvious allusion, always has been. Oldtown, or even the Shields given the timing of this chapter, could very much work as well. I bet Eastwatch will be the first castle to fall to the Others.I really really really thought that meant Oldtown. A lil disappointed now. Melisandre is always right, and if people listened to her more often, the world would be a Heaven on Earth.She's always been right.Not necessarily where the white walkers will go but many believe that Euron will invade Oldtown and destroy the Hightower with a kraken and then blow the Horn of Winter, bringing the wall down and allowing the white walkers to march south. Oh and this isn't exactly canon, but here's some artwork depicting it from AWOIAF: http://awoiaf.westeros.org/index.php/Eastwatch-by-the-SeaSo, from my very limited remembering of A Level Chemistry, It is very difficult for the sea to freeze, because it is constantly moving and contains salt (though the latter only lowers the freezing point by a little bit), you need a while of sustained low temperatures to begin the process, and then it tends to expand slowly over time from the shore line.

So, unless the WW could bring about a cold snap in a localized and directed way (Which I'm not to sure about, as the cold seems to follow them than be controlled?) and lower the temperature massively (like a lot a lot) its not a practicable thing to do, unless you want to sit about there for a long time. 

I mean I guess they could, but would be a bit of a wait. Or you know Magic. 
I tried check via both asearchoficeandfire.com and the so spake martin search engine, but I couldn't find any results, the most pertinent I saw was Sam recounting how Eastwatch and then the Wall faded away on his journey to Braavos, but I assume the Wall faded second as it is assuredly several hundred feet higher than the tallest tower of Eastwatch-by-the sea. I think that if the wall extended further into the bay, there would be some mention of it, so as far as I can tell, the Wall ends at the Sea.Do you know what that's worth? Well, circlejerk aside, Melisandre IS always literally right, but has a shit track record at interpretation of prophecies.Are we on r/asoiafcirclejerk?Well her visions are real but she doesn't always interpret them correctly. But to be fair they are often vague af. AH! That makes more sense.So that is what I've been thinking. Magic. Maybe as the undead army grows, the WW get stronger which makes the cold surrounding them stronger. And well, maybe the Night King has ability we don't understand yet. Thanks for looking at the chemistry side of it. It gives some insight to why more haven't theorized it. Either way, it is fun to speculate, and I've been wrong many times before in trying to guess the story. We will both see how it turns out! So she isn't always right thenAnd sometimes she's just dense as hellOkay. 

Mel always _sees_ the truth, but has a shit record at recognizing it?Do we know that for a fact?Yeah, she herself acknowledged that she reads them wrong sometimes.